Sun-Dried Tomato and Basil Breadsticks
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/sun-dried-tomato-basil-breadsticks/



	Sun-Dried Tomato and Basil Breadsticks

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Sun-Dried Tomato and Basil… This combination of flavors is popular in everything from salad dressing to vegetable dip.  How about for a breadstick?!   Through experience, I can safely say… yes!!

I found the flavor of these breadsticks to be strong enough to make the ingredients identifiable yet subtle enough to compliment any dish that I paired them with.

One, just one of the cool things about this recipe is that you can create a soft, bread-like texture, or a hard, crunchy one.  Or go ahead and mix things up… create some of each.

These breadsticks pair wonderfully with salads, my Basil Pesto and Zucchini Noodles, Basil and Kale Pesto Salad, Basil Pesto and Zucchini Noodles, or my Italian Tomato Spaghetti with Noodle Squash,  These are just a few ideas to inspire you.

I want to go over a few of the ingredients so that you can successfully make this recipe. First off, let’s chat about the almond flour that I used.  To create a lighter texture and that similar to a true breadstick, I used fine almond flour. Not just ground almonds. You can create the flour by either drying then grinding almond pulp or by using commercially made almond flour.  You won’t get as much nutritional value from the store-bought stuff, but start where you can.

As far as the sun-dried tomatoes go, I used ones that were dried at a low heat (which you can make right at home) and then re-hydrated them in water. If you need to use the kind that is soaked in oil, that’s fine, just skip the re-hydrating process and dab them dry before adding to the recipe.  Other than that… it’s pretty easy-peasy. I hope you enjoy this recipe; please be sure to comment below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 4 cups = 18 breadsticks (2.5 Tbsp per stick)


Dry Ingredients:


1 cup raw almond flour

1/2 cup flax flour

3 Tbsp raw coconut flour

1 Tbsp dried minced onion

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Wet Ingredients:


1 large (2 cups diced) zucchini, peeled

2 Tbsp water

1 Tbsp cold-pressed olive

1/4 cup maple syrup

1 Tbsp coconut aminos

2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1/2 cup diced, sun-dried tomatoes, (not soaked in oil)


Add:


2 cups almond pulp

1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1 tsp dried basil or 1 1/2 Tbsp

Roll in black and white sesame seeds


Preparation:


Rehydrate the sun-dried tomatoes by adding enough hot water to cover them.

Allow them to soak while you start preparing the recipe.

When you are ready to add them to the recipe, drain the soak water and hand squeeze any excess water out.




In the food processor fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, ground flax, coconut flour, minced onion, and salt. Pulse together, place in a medium-large mixing bowl, and set aside.

In the same food processor bowl, combine zucchini, water, olive oil, sweetener, aminos, and lemon juice.   Process to a sauce-like texture

Add the sun-dried tomatoes and process them until they are broken down but not liquified.   Pour into the bowl that is holding the dry ingredients.

Add the almond pulp, sunflower seeds, and basil.  Hand mix until everything is well incorporated.

Be sure that you drain and discard the soak water from the sunflower seeds before adding them.




Scoop out 2.5 Tbsp of dough and shape it into a log on a non-stick surface.

I did this on the teflex sheet that came with the dehydrator.

If they crack a lot during this process, it means the batter is too dry. Put back in the bowl and massage in 1-2 Tbsp of water.




Sprinkle the sesame seeds over the breadsticks and roll them to press them in a bit.  Place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 (F) degrees for 1 hour, then decrease the temperature to 115 (F) degrees and continue to dehydrate for 6-8 hours or until dry.

You can control how dry or moist you want them.  So check throughout the process, leaving one breadstick as a taste tester to see what texture you prefer.




Store in an air-tight container for 3-5 days.

The more moisture that is left in your breadstick, the shorter the shelf life. Therefore, shelf life will vary with your drying technique.

Keep in mind, the whole purpose of eating a raw diet is to eat foods at their peak of freshness, so don’t expect this bread to have a long shelf life.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



