Onion Cheese Bread (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/onion-cheese-bread/



	Onion Cheese Bread

													    
    


				

 raw / vegan / gluten-free

To say that I enjoy these raw breads is an understatement.  I LOVE them!  I was always one of those who could live on bread alone.  It didn’t matter what form, shape, or flavor it came in… I ate it; I loved it.

But over four years ago, I stopped eating gluten.  I went cold-turkey overnight and let me tell you; it wasn’t easy.  Throughout this process, I even stayed clear of processed breads that are labeled gluten-free.

Why?  Well, in my discoveries, just because something is gluten-free, it doesn’t mean that it is any healthier for you.  Plus, by eating substitutes as I was trying to wean myself away from gluten, I felt it only kept my cravings for the real deal.

Bread products were an addiction for me.  Now, I am a recovering Bread-O-Holic!   With this four-year buffer, I now find that I can behave myself if left alone in the same room with a loaf of fresh-baked bread!   I  never lost the battle, but we both have walked out a bit buttered er battered!

This bread recipe is dense and has a full-bodied flavor.  You can slice it as thin or as thick as you desire.  You can shape it into a loaf, or spread it flat.  Knead it, beat it, spank it and rub a little love into it!  “Roll it, pat it, mark it with a B, Put it in the dehydrator just for me.”

I couldn’t wait to create a sandwich with this bread. I created a coleslaw filling for it. I mixed some of my Onion Dill & Horseradish Cream Sauce with shredded cabbage and carrots and piled it high between two pieces of bread. Oh, and I added some arugula.  I then served it up with my Cumin Kale Salad and my Springtime “Rice” Salad. It hit the spot perfectly. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 1 loaf




2 cups raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

2 cups diced onions

2 cloves garlic

1/4 cup sun-dried tomatoes (I used sun-dried tomatoes soaked in oil)

1/4 cup water

1½ tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup ground flax seeds

1/2 cup psyllium husks

1 cup nutritional yeast 


Preparation:


Place the almonds into the food processor and chop until they reach a very small nugget size.  Be careful that you don’t over-process.  You don’t want the almonds to release too much oil.   Remove from food processor and place in a separate bowl.

No need to wash the food processor bowl – add the onion, garlic, sun-dried tomatoes, water, and salt.  Process until everything is well combined and broken down.

Add in the almonds, flax meal, psyllium husks, and nutritional yeast.  Process until everything is well combined.

If the mixture is too dry, add water no more than 2 Tbsp at a time.  You want the batter to stick together when you pinch it.





Shaping the bread loaf style:


Remove the dough and form a bread loaf with your hands.

Using a sharp knife cut shallow indentations, creating score marks to the size of bread slices that you want in the end.

Brush the top with some olive oil and then sprinkle on dried onion flakes, if desired.




Set the dehydrator to 145 degrees (F) and place the bread on the mesh sheet that comes with your dehydrator. Dry at this temperature for 1 hour to create the crust.   Set a timer, so you don’t forget!

Remove the bread from the dehydrator and slice the bread into the desired thicknesses.  Lay them flat on the mesh sheet that comes with your dehydrator.

Reduce the heat to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for 6-10 hours. Keep an eye on them and remove them when you find the perfect level of moistness for you.


Shaping the bread flat:


Spread the bread dough flat on a non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator, roughly 1/4″ thick, and score it into sandwich bread sizes. That is what I did this time.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8+ hours.

The dry time will vary depending on how moist you want the bread, what the climate is in the area that you live, and how full the machine is.

Keep an eye on it, so it doesn’t dry out.

Partway through the dry time, flip the bread over onto the mesh sheet that comes with the machine. This will help the air to better circulate around the bread.




Shelf life and storage:  My recommendation would be to store this bread in an air-tight container, in the fridge, for 3-5 days.

The more moisture that is left in your bread, the shorter the shelf life.

Therefore, shelf life will vary with your drying technique.  Whenever I make this bread, it never lasts very long enough to spoil.

Keep in mind, the whole purpose of eating a raw diet is to eat foods at their peak of freshness, so don’t expect this bread to have an extended expiration date.







The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

How does psyllium work in a recipe? Learn more (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



Just pulled it out of the dehydrator. Ready to build that sandwich!









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



