Raw Honey Corn Flatbread
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/raw-honey-corn-flatbread/



	Honey Corn Flatbread

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free ~

Even though honey is not the main ingredient by volume, the slight sweet hint of it compels me to shine the spotlight upon it.

I use to think that honey was honey.  It wasn’t until I brought the raw food lifestyle into my diet that I even knew there was a difference between regular honey and raw honey.  Most golden honey you see on the shelf at your local grocery is far from having the health-promoting powerhouse of its natural, unpasteurized counterpart.

Texture and color will be the first indicator between regular honey and raw honey. Raw honey may appear to have granules and have a milky color while regular honey looks smooth and has a uniform color.  This smoothness is the result of pasteurization.  When selecting honey, make sure the words “raw” and  “unpasteurized” are on the label.

It is recommended to use honey from as close to where you live as possible, for it may be beneficial if you suffer from allergies.

It also helps to build your immune system and is filled with healthy, natural bacteria like acidophilus, which is terrific for the gut. The health benefits touted for this fantastic ingredient go on and on.  I just basically wanted to wet your whistle, hoping it would prompt you to do your own research. :)

I also wanted to share this quick snippet of info, and I get a lot of visitors to my site that is new to raw foods and are learning about the differences between raw and processed ingredients. For my recipes, I always use raw honey.  And for those of you who are used to dealing with it can back me up when I say that raw honey adds a different texture to a recipe.

Processed honey remains sticky, gooey, and liquidity.  Whereas raw honey is sticky and gooey too… but it will firm up as well. This adds a great benefit to many recipes that require a stiffer texture.  Since raw honey does remain firm in the jar unless you live in a very hot climate, you can soften it by placing the jar in the dehydrator at 115 degrees for a few hours, or you can place the closed jar in a bowl filled with hot water.

So onward to the flatbread here.  The texture of more on the thick side, maybe even a bit chewy.  It has a slight sweetness from the honey and corn, which by the way… complement one another beautifully.  I hope that you enjoy this recipe as much as we did.

Ingredients:   

Dry Ingredients:


2 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup psyllium husks

1/2 cup ground flax meal

2 tsp onion powder

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Wet Ingredients:


2 cups moist, packed  almond pulp

2 cups organic corn kernels

1 cup almond milk

2 Tbsp raw honey


Preparation:

Creating the dough:


Place the oats in a food processor fitted with the “S” blade and process to a  flour consistency.  There will still be some small bits, but this is ok.

Add psyllium, ground flax, onion powder, and salt.  Pulse till mixed — place in a large bowl.

Add almond pulp, corn kernels, almond milk, and honey.  Mix with your hands, making sure everything is well combined.  Depending on how moist your almond pulp is, you may need to add additional almond milk so the dough sticks together nicely.  If you do this, add 1 Tbsp at a time.


To create flatbread:


Create 1/4 cup-sized balls of dough.  Place the dough ball in between two teflex sheets or wax paper and with a rolling pin, flatten out into a long strip or whatever size, shape, and thickness you want.  I did two balls at the same time, spaced about 2″ apart.

Fold the teflex sheet over, laying the rolled-out cracker into the palm of your hand and then gently peel the teflex sheet away.  If you rolled it too thin, it would be hard to get off.

With the flattened dough now sitting in your hand, cup your hand as you turn it over and lay the dough on the mesh sheet.  By cupping your hand a bit, it causes folds or ripples in the dough.  You can skip this process and just lay them flat on the mesh sheet.  I like creating that “cooked appearance” but creating lumps and bumps as though the heat bubbled the dough.  Silly, perhaps, but fun.

Sprinkle dried onion flakes (optional) and coarse sea salt on top of each cracker.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 6-10 hours or until dry.

Store in an air-tight container for 1-2 weeks.


To create biscuits:


Roll the dough out onto wax paper about 1/4″ thick or thicker.  Using a round or oval cookie cutter, press the mold into the dough to create biscuit forms.  Transfer to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

You can also create 1/4 cup sized balls and hand-shaped into biscuits.

Sprinkle dried onion flakes (optional) and coarse sea salt on top of each biscuit.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for 6-10 hours or until desired dryness is achieved.  I left mine with some moisture, so it was more like a biscuit than a cracker.

Store in an air-tight container for 1-2 weeks.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flax-seeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).

How does psyllium work in a recipe? Learn more (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



