Caramelized Onion Bread
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/caramelized-onion-bread/



	Caramelized Onion Bread

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

When making this bread… the aroma alone will send you over the edge.  I am hereby reclaiming my love and passion for bread.  I use to feel deprived and sad when I would think of how I had given up bread so many years ago.

Even though I haven’t had a piece for about five years now, it is nothing to see me sucked up against a bakeries storefront window with my husband in tow as he squeegees my drool off their window.  Some stop and smell the roses —  I for one-stop, and smell the bread.

This bread is complex in flavor and texture. With each bite, you get the rich flavor of caramelized onions, nestled in the sweetness, the softness of the center, and the crunchy exterior.

For Bob, the aftertaste is the final test… Does it make you want to go back for more?   After he had popped the last bite into his mouth, he said that it left him wanting more.  So, what’s a man to do?… He had another… and another… and another… then decided he better save some. Hehe, He loved it with the Caramelized Onion Spread smeared across the top.

Making food that others love is like, well, it makes me feel… I don’t know; it is one of the best feelings that I experience.  Do you want to experience that feeling?  If so, put on your apron and get busy in the kitchen.  I will be there with you in spirit.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 1 loaf

Dry Ingredients:


1 cup rolled, gluten-free oat, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup psyllium husks

1/4 cup flax seeds, ground

3 Tbsp coconut flour

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Wet Ingredients:


2 cups packed, moist almond pulp

3 cup Caramelized Onions, chopped

1 cup water

1/2 cup Caramelized Onion marinade liquid

1/4 cup date paste


Preparation:


First, make your oat flour by putting the oats in the food processor, processing until it reaches a fine flour consistency.

Add ground flax seeds, coconut flour, psyllium, and salt.  Pulse till mixed — place in a large bowl.

Add almond pulp, caramelized onions, water, marinade liquid, and date paste.  Mix with your hands, making sure everything is well combined.

Depending on how moist your almond pulp is, you may need to add water, so the dough sticks together nicely.  If you do, do this by adding 1 Tbsp at a time.

To create a smoother texture, you can chop the onions into smaller pieces.




Remove the batter and shape it into the desired size.  I pressed mine into a loaf pan and popped it out to get the shape.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour to set the outer crust.

Remove from the dehydrator and slice the bread into 1/2-1″ thick pieces.  Lay the bread flat on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Reduce the temp to 115 degrees (F) for 6-10 hours.  Remove when it reaches desired dryness.

Once cooled, store the bread in an airtight container in the fridge. It should keep 3-5 days.

To freeze, wrap in individual slices and then place them in an airtight container.  It should keep for 1 month.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).

How does psyllium work in a recipe? Learn more (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



