French Garden Bagel (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/french-garden-bagel/



	French Garden Bagel

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

 

I am not sure if it is proper to use the word “bagel” because typically, bagels have a chewy texture and a slightly crisp outer layer.  This is accomplished by handling the dough in a particular way before it is cooked, preventing it from rising too much and giving the bagel its signature texture.

 

Bagels are also typically steamed or boiled before baking.  This raw bagel batter turns out more bread-like.  But in the world of making raw breads, one has to hold onto every yummy morsel and appreciate what is given to us!

 

To create the bread-like texture, I used Irish Moss, plus I have tried Kelp paste, and both worked wonderfully.  I provided links within the ingredient list that will explain how and why they work, as well as how to make them into gels.  I don’t recommend skimping on them since they are intricate ingredients for textural purposes. I hope you enjoy it. amie sue
Ingredients:


1 cup gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

3 Tbsp raw coconut flour

1 Tbsp Italian seasoning

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cups packed, moist  almond pulp

1/2 cup Irish moss gel or Kelp paste

1/4 cup date paste

1 Tbsp lemon juice


Preparation:


Place the oats in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade,  processing until it reaches a fine flour consistency.

Add the ground flax, coconut flour, seasoning, and salt.  Pulse till mixed.

Add almond pulp, Irish moss or kelp paste, date paste, and lemon juice.  Blend till everything is well incorporated.

Depending on how moist your almond pulp is, you may need to add water, so the dough sticks together nicely.  If you do, do this by adding 1 Tbsp at a time.




Remove the batter using 1/4 cup measuring cup.  Roll into a ball and gently flatten.  Using the apple corer, remove the center hole, creating a bagel shape.

Place bread on the mesh sheet that comes with your dehydrator and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour.  This will create a crust on the outside.

Decrease the temperature to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dehydrate for roughly 6-10 hours.

Shelf life and storage:  My recommendation would be to store this bread in an air-tight container, in the fridge, for 3-5 days.

The more moisture that is left in your bread, the shorter the shelf life.  Therefore, shelf life will vary with your drying technique.  Whenever I make this bread, it never lasts very long enough to spoil.

Keep in mind, the whole purpose of eating a raw diet is to eat foods at the peaked of freshness, so don’t expect this bread to have an extended expiration date.







The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Dates are a fantastic ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



