Tomato & "Cheese" on Sunflower Bread
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/tomato-cheese-on-sunflower-bread-raw-vegan-nut-free/



	Tomato & “Cheese” on Sunflower Bread

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free, vegan, nut-free ~

I love tomato and cheese sandwiches.  It’s been a coon’s age since I last had one, but I can still remember it vividly.  I use to eat them on plain white bagels, though.

You know it’s funny… when I ate bread back in the day it came in different forms, but it was always white, sometimes wheat and if daring, whole grain seeded.  In my raw, gluten-free journey… my breads are full of flavor, making sure every loaf is made of savory spices and herbs.  I would say that my variety of breads is far more exciting than they ever were.

This bread differs a bit from my other ones, which usually consist of making a loaf first.  This time, I spread the batter roughly 1/4” thick and dehydrated it as a sheet, then cutting it into squares.  Because I choose to use different ingredients, this bread batter won’t hold into a loaf shape, so no need to even attempt that. :)

I hope you enjoy this recipe.  Please leave comments below and share your thoughts with me.  I do love hearing from you. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Bread: yields 10” x 10″ piece


1/2 cup sunflower Seeds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup flax seeds, ground (= 1 1/2 cups ground)

1 Tbsp dried dill

1 tsp ground cumin

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 1/2 (170 g) cups diced red pepper

1 cup water

2 Tbsp raw coconut amino


“Mozzarella Cheese:”








1 cup cashews or sunflower seeds, soaked 2+ hours

3/4 cup water

1/4 cup nutritional yeast

2 Tbsp raw coconut vinegar

1 tbsp onion powder

1 tsp smoked salt

1/2 tsp garlic powder






 Agar gel:


3/4 cups water

4 tsp agar powder


Sandwich options:


Large Heirloom tomatoes, sliced thick

Lettuce





Preparation:

Bread: yields 10” x 10″ piece


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the sunflower seeds, ground flax, dill, cumin, and salt.  Process until well mixed.

Add the red pepper, water, and coconut amino’s. Process until it is well mixed into a thick paste-like batter.

Line a dehydrator tray with a non-stick sheet and spread the batter about 1/4 ” thick, into a 10 x 10″ square.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for roughly 2-3 hours, until it is dry enough to flip over onto the mesh sheet, removing the non-stick sheet.

Continue to dry for another 2-4 hours, until it is still spongy but dry.

We are not going to dry it till crispy… we are making a bread, not a big thick cracker.




Once done, cut into sandwich-sized pieces and enjoy.

Keep leftovers wrapped and in the fridge for 5-7 days.


“Mozzarella Cheese:”






Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 4 cups of water.

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews, so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain, and rinse.

* To make this nut-free, use sunflower seeds instead of cashews.  Same measurement and technique.




In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, water, nutritional yeast, vinegar, onion, smoked salt, and garlic powder.  Blend until creamy and smooth.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is essential to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the batter is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth if the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




In a small saucepan, whisk together 3/4 cup of water and the agar.  Bring to a boil for about one minute, stirring constantly. Reduce the heat and simmer for about 5 minutes, continually stirring until the agar has dissolved completely.

Start the blender creating a vortex, CAREFULLY add the agar gel and blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.  The batter will start to thicken.

Be careful that the liquid doesn’t splatter, hitting your skin.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Pour the mixture into the mold of choice.

Store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 days.

You can grate this cheese using a box grater, or you can slice it any way you wish.


Assembly:


Build the sandwich as you see fit.  I love a thick slice of tomato and cheese!

Enjoy!






Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



