Raw Sunday Morning Bread (peanut butter and banana bread)
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/raw-sunday-morning-bread-peanut-butter-and-banana-bread/



	Sunday Morning Bread

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Sunday Morning Bread… why did I name this recipe, Sunday Morning Bread?  For some reason, it just reminded me of a special treat that might be shared with the family on a Sunday morning.

Throughout the week, our days get away from us, and we are lucky to sit down with our families even once a day to share a meal.

Sundays always remind me of family days, and family days deserve special treats.  I can’t say that I grew up with any Sunday morning traditions, but I sure do value quality time spent with loved ones.


How about you?  Do you have any unique traditions that take place on Sunday or any other day of the week? Perhaps it is an activity or a food if so I would love to hear about them. :)

This bread is more like a dessert.  It is rich in peanut butter with a sweet undertone of banana. In the photo here on the left, I spread some softened coconut butter on it, and boy oh boy, if that wasn’t knee-slapping good!  Just plan, pure coconut butter. It doesn’t need to be any more complicated than that.  If you want to enhance the flavors, warm it up in the dehydrator at 145 degrees for 15 minutes.  Nothing like warm, gooey, rich bread.  *inhales deeply*


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Now don’t go getting upset with me when I give another suggestion but… you can even toast it. I know, I know… did your mouth hit the keyboard?  All of my raw breads have been toasted, either by Bob or by house guests.  Not always, but a few times and to be honest, they toast up nicely.  Now, why would I even suggest such a thing?

Well, because not everybody here eats a 100% raw diet, but they still want to use the right quality ingredients in their foods.  Perhaps you eat a very high raw diet, but your spouse or child doesn’t.   You might have a hard time convincing them to try a raw bread, and I understand that.  Why not meet them halfway? Perhaps in time, they would have a better chance of going from store-bought bread to raw, toasted bread and then, maybe, in time liking it in its raw form.  It is kind of like a bridge.  Enjoy.

Ingredients:

yields 1 large loaf

Dry Ingredients:


1 cup rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

3 Tbsp raw coconut flour

1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink  salt


Wet Ingredients:


3 cups moist, packed almond pulp

1 cup (2 large) mashed bananas, ripe

1/2 cup natural peanut butter

6 Tbsp almond milk

3 Tbsp maple syrup

3 Tbsp raw honey or raw coconut nectar

2 tsp vanilla extract

3/4 cup raisins


Preparation:


In the food processor fitted with the “S” blade, process the oats to flour.  Add flax meal, coconut flour, cinnamon, and salt.  Pulse till mixed.  Pour into a large bowl.

Add the almond pulp, mashed banana, peanut butter, milk, sweeteners, vanilla, and raisins.

Mix with your hands till everything is well incorporated.

Depending on how dry your almond pulp is, you may need to add water, so the dough sticks together nicely.  If you this, add 1 Tbsp at a time.




Transfer the dough to the non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator and shape it into a loaf of bread.

Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, remove the loaf and slice into 1″ slices, laying them flat on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Reduce to 115 degrees  (F) for about 4-6  hours.  You don’t want it to be doughy, but you also don’t want the bread to dry out too much.

Shelf life and storage:  My recommendation would be to store this bread in an air-tight container, in the fridge, for 3-5 days.

The more moisture that is left in your bread, the shorter the shelf life.  Therefore, shelf life will vary with your drying technique.  Whenever I make this bread, it never lasts very long enough to spoil.

Keep in mind, the whole purpose of eating a raw diet is to eat foods at their peak of freshness, so eat up.




To warm the bread before eating,  place it in the dehydrator set at 145 degrees for 5-10 minutes.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Learn about the wonderful characteristics of Raw Coconut Nectar (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



