Sourdough Bread / Buns
https://nouveauraw.com/artisan-breads/sourdough-bread-buns/



	Sourdough Bread / Buns

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I think sourdough is an acquired taste, you either like it, or you don’t.  There really never seems to be a middle ground. If you are one of those who are unsure about sourdough, allow me to encourage you to give this recipe a try.  The beauty is that you can control just how strong you want the sourdough flavor to shine through.

I, for one, didn’t care much for sourdough as I was growing up.  But in my adult years, I have come to enjoy its tangy flavor. In this recipe, probiotics are going to be the critical ingredient that helps us achieve the sourdough flavor.

I thought to myself that if we can use probiotics to create nut cheeses, why not use it to make a fermented bread!  And much like a nut cheese,  you can control how intense to make the flavor.  The longer you leave it to ferment, the stronger the sourdough taste.

Sourdough is usually made with both yeast and its little helper called Lactobacillus, which produces lactic acid.  The lactic acid gives the bread a slightly sour, tangy taste.  Since we don’t want to use yeast in our recipes, I turned to probiotics that contain Lactobacillus acidophilus. 

Probiotics are bacteria that help maintain the natural balance of organisms (microflora) in our intestines.  They play a crucial role in our digestive tract.  We know that our digestive tract needs a healthy balance between the good and bad bacteria, so what gets in the way of this?  Poor food choices, emotional stress, lack of sleep, antibiotic overuse, other drugs, and environmental influences can all shift the balance in favor of the harmful bacteria.  So, now we can enjoy this raw bread knowing that it is “gut healthy” and umm umm good!

I hope you enjoy this recipe, and your tummy gives it a thumbs up. Please leave a comment below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 16 buns



Ferment Stage:


4 cups moist, packed almond pulp

2 cups almond milk

1 tsp (emptied from 4 capsules) probiotics


Dry Ingredients:


2 cups gluten-free oat flour

1/2 cup ground flax seeds

2 Tbsp psyllium husks

1 Tbsp dried onion flakes

2 tsp onion powder

2 tsp Italian seasoning

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Wet Ingredients:


1/2 cup water

2 Tbsp raw honey or raw coconut nectar for vegan

1 Tbsp lemon juice


Topping:


black sesame seeds

dried onion flakes

ground flax seeds


Preparation:

Fermentation stage:


In a medium-sized bowl combine the almond pulp, almond milk, and probiotics.  Mix well and cover the bowl.

Place the covered bowl in the dehydrator set at the lowest temperature, I did 95 degrees and let it sit for up to 36 hours to ferment.

Please taste test throughout this process.  Once it reaches the strength of “sourdoughness,” you like, move on to the next steps.

Also, be aware that if you live in a warmer climate that you might not need to ferment it as long otherwise, mold might develop.  Be mindful of your climate.





Creating the buns:


In the food processor, combine the oat flour, ground flax, psyllium husks, onion flakes, onion powder, Italian Seasoning, and salt. Pulse to combine.

Transfer the dry batter to a large bowl and hand fold in the fermented almond pulp, water, honey, and lemon juice, making sure everything is well combined. I dove in there with my hands.  Much more fun to connect with your food!

Create the buns using a 1/2 cup measuring cup.

Scoop up the dough and level it off.

Remove the dough from the cup and shape it into a bun and sprinkle the top with; ground flax meal (gives it that “browned, baked” look, dried onion flakes, and black sesame seeds.

Place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour to form a crunchy crust on the bread.  Turn the temp down to 115 degrees and continue drying for 4-8 hours or until desired moistness is achieved.

Shelf life and storage:  My recommendation would be to store this bread in an air-tight container, in the fridge, for 3-5 days.

The more moisture that is left in your bread, the shorter the shelf life.  Therefore, shelf life will vary with your drying technique.  Whenever I make this bread, it never lasts very long enough to spoil.

Keep in mind, the whole purpose of eating a raw diet is to eat foods at their peak of freshness, so don’t expect this bread to have an extended expiration date.

These buns are meant to have some moisture left in the center.  If you want them to dry out, slice them in half, and return to the dehydrator until the desired dryness is achieved.







The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Learn about the characteristics of Raw Coconut Nectar (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).

How does psyllium work in a recipe? Learn more (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.






 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



