Hazelnut Brownies Infused with Plantain Coconut Tea
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/hazelnut-fudge-infused-with-plantain-coconut-tea/



	Hazelnut Fudge Infused with Plantain Coconut Tea

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I made these brownies three months ago and just now found them stashed in the bottom drawer of the freezer!  How in tarnation did that happen?!

Have you ever lost Chocolate?

I mean really, who loses chocolate?!   I had my husband taste test one for me.  At first, he didn’t respond, but soon I found him in the fridge snagging another one.  He closed the door and said that he needed one more to make sure that they were good or not.

It’s now been four pieces later, and I think I have my answer.   I guess I don’t need to explain that they freeze beautifully now do I. :)

Using the contents of tea bags has been a lot of fun. Someone else has already done all the work, blending the perfect herbs and spices… and we get to benefit from it.

These days some grocery stores have an entire aisle dedicated to tea!  So don’t be afraid to snatch one up and use it in this fudge recipe as a base.  Not only do they sound decadent, but they are also decadent!  I hope you enjoy this sticky fudge. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Makes 12-24 brownies, depends on how big your eyes are.




4 cups Medjool dates, seeds removed

1/2 cup cold-pressed raw coconut oil, melted

1/2 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 cup maple syrup (or preferred sweetener)

1/4 cup raw ground flax seeds

2 Tbsp vanilla extract

6 coconut tea bags, contents of (open bags and use contents)

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup raw hazelnuts, roughly chopped


Preparation:


Prepare the 8×8, straight-edged pan by lining it with plastic wrap to prevent the brownies from sticking to the pan.  Set aside.

Place all ingredients except the hazelnuts in the food processor — process using the “S” blade until everything is well incorporated.

Remove the dough and place in a large bowl.

Add the chopped hazelnuts and work the dough by hand.  Run your hand under the faucet to dampen your hand.  Then using the palm of your hand, make folding motions with the dough, so the hazelnuts get evenly distributed.  If the dough starts to stick to your hands, dampen them again.

Press the dough into the pan.

Put the fudge in the freezer and let it sit for a least an hour.

Slice squares, then sprinkle with cacao powder and garnish with whole hazelnuts.

IF you have any leftovers, I recommend storing them in the fridge as they will soften a bit.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Dates are a fantastic ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Learn how to grind your flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



