Chocolate Peanut Butter Brownie Bars - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/chocolate-peanut-butter-brownie-bars/



	Chocolate Peanut Butter Brownie Bars

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Last night’s creation, Chocolate Peanut Butter Brownie Bars,  was inspired by our dear friends Victor and Sandy.  They prepared a fantastic dinner for us, and we brought dessert.  With a chocolate creation already rolling around in my head, Sandy emailed me and asked if I could make something chocolaty!  How perfectly did that work out?! :)

To me, it is always a good sign when silence falls upon the room when the first bite is taken.  I watched Victor’s face to see if I could get a read on him as to if he liked it or not…his complete silence, his innocent concentration on his plate, and the witnessing of him scraping up every last morsel and smudge of frosting off the plate, spoke volumes.  No crumb was left behind.  I will take that as a compliment.

The bottom layer is vibrant, decadent chocolate, the middle layer is a scrumptious peanut butter layer, and to top them both off, I dressed the brownie with a sinful chocolate frosting!

Ingredients:

Yield: I used a 6×8 pan, but you can change the size by adjusting the layer thicknesses.

Chocolate Brownie Layer:


3 cups raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

16  Medjool dates, pitted

2/3 cup raw cacao powder

1 tsp vanilla extract

2 tsp water

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Peanut Butter Layer:




2 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated 

1 cup oat flour (see below)

1 cup natural peanut butter

1/2 cup raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1/4 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar

1/4 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 1/2 tsp vanilla

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Chocolate Ganache:


3/4 cup raw agave syrup or maple syrup

3/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/3 cup virgin coconut oil, melted

1/8 tsp plus a pinch salt


Preparation:

Chocolate Brownie Layer:


Place the walnuts and salt in a food processor fitted with the S-blade process until finely ground.

Add the cocoa powder and process until the powder is incorporated. Then start adding in the dates.

Add the water and vanilla and process mixture until it begins to stick together.  It will create a ball that rolls around in the food processor but be gentle at this point. If you over-process it, the walnuts will release too much oil.

Line a 6-inch cake pan with a parchment paper to make it easier to remove.

Pour the chocolate mixture into the pan and distribute it evenly.

Press down with your hand to compact.

Place in the freezer while you make the peanut butter layer.


Peanut Butter Layer:


To make your oat flour,  place the raw oats in the food processor and process until it becomes a fine powder.

Add in the remaining ingredients, except for the coconut oil and blend until well incorporated.

As the food processor is running,  drizzle in the melted coconut oil.  You may need to stop a few times and scrape the sides and spread the dough around evenly.

Remove the chocolate layer from the freezer.  Add 1 1/2 cups of this peanut butter batter on top and press firmly with your hand.  You can make peanut butter cookies with the leftover batter.

Place back in the freezer while you make the frosting.


Chocolate Ganache:


Place all of the ingredients in a blender and process until smooth.

Stop occasionally to scrape down the sides of the blender jar with a rubber spatula.

Take the brownie batter from the freezer and pour it on the frosting.  Spread evenly, cover, and chill until ready to serve.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Click (here) for my thoughts on raw agave nectar.

Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Learn about the wonderful characteristics of Raw Coconut Nectar (here).

Dates are a fantastic ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



