Fennel Seed and Lemon Bars
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/fennel-seed-and-lemon-bars-raw-vegan-gluten-free/



	Fennel Seed and Lemon Bars

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, Paleo ~

You know, pistachios are one of those nuts that are underused in recipes.  I do love them, perhaps too much, and that is why I don’t have them sitting around too often. Bob loves them also, and you can always tell where he sits in the house because it seems like there is always a trail of pistachio shells to be found.  :)

Pistachios are full of nutrients and fiber and known to be great for digestion. New research indicates that these ultra-healthy nuts have prebiotic characteristics – meaning they can help support higher levels of beneficial bacteria in your digestive tract.

Just one serving of pistachios can make a big difference for your aching stomach. And there’s more good news – one serving is 47 nuts, a larger serving size than any other type of nut, which clocks in at only 158 calories and contains more fiber than half a cup of spinach. That fiber, along with pistachios’ unsaturated fat, keeps your digestive system running smoothly. Healthy fats also help to lower cholesterol levels.

This bar can be dehydrator-free if you want it to. Which is a great option to have?   If you decide not to dehydrate them, make sure to keep them stored in the fridge or freezer.  I hope you enjoy this treat,  Blessings.

Ingredients:

yields 9 bars




 1/2 cup raw pistachios, soaked

1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked

1/2 cup whole flax seeds

3/4 cup shredded unsweetened coconut

4 tsp fennel seeds

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 1/2 cups Medjool dates, pitted

2 tsp lemon extract

3 Tbsp water


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the pistachios, sunflower seeds, cashews, flax seeds, coconut, fennel, and salt.  Pulse till everything is broken into small pebble-sized pieces.

If you already have soaked and dehydrated nuts and seeds, there is no need to re-soak them.




Add dates and lemon extract.  Mix until the batter starts rolling into a ball in the machine.

If the batter is too dry, add the water, 1 Tbsp at a time. The amount of moisture in the dates and if you used soaked nuts and seeds will determine if or how much water is needed.

The batter should almost appear to dry but sticks together when pinched.




Line an 8 x 8″ baking pan with plastic wrap (for the ease of removing later) and press the batter into it, firmly and evenly.

Alternatively, you can use the bar press, which is what I did to get compressed and even-sized bars. Click (here) to learn about this technique.

Freeze for 4+ hours.

Remove from the pan and cut into desired shapes.  Wrap individually and store in the fridge for 1 week or freezer for 1-2 months.

Option – you can dehydrate these as well.  Place them on a mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for 6+ hours.  Pull them out at the dryness that you want.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



