Chocolate Chip Banana Bread Bars - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/chocolate-chip-banana-bread-bars/



	Chocolate Chip Banana Bread Bars

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The smell and taste of banana bread always takes me back to my Great Grandmother’s kitchen.  As a little girl, it seemed as though she spent every waking moment in there.  I know this isn’t true, just the perception as a little girl who used to bounce around her feet just like a puppy dog waiting for crumbs of food.

She made everything from scratch and prepared every meal we ate.  I can only remember eating out once in twelve years when I stayed with my Great Grandparents.

It was pretty much a given that no matter what she was making, she would give me a small portion of the batter, dough, or whatever it was so I could play with it and make my “mini foods.”  Back then and even today, I have always had a fetish with trial sized items.  It didn’t matter what it was.

When I stayed there, they would give me a handful of coins, and with much excitement, my friend Bonita and I would ride our bikes into town (a VERY small town in North Dakota).   I would stand in the aisle of Ben Franklin’s contemplating what I wanted to buy.  It was always a toss between a live goldfish and a trial-sized item from the travel section.

Anyway, back to the kitchen.  Whenever she would make banana bread, she would always hand over some of the batter and some miniature bread pans so I could make my own little treats for my girlfriend Bonita and myself.  I love all those cherished memories.  That is why when I fired up my dehydrator and the warm air combined with these amazing ingredients…I was transported back in time.  I do hope this recipe brings you as much pleasure as it does me.

I have made this recipe many times over, and each time, it is a winner with the crowds.  My dad is a long haul truck driver, and I do my best to keep his cooler stocked with healthy raw treats. It’s not always easy because I have to find a place to mail them to while he is fleeting between states… but when I am determined… all things are possible.

These treats keep him full, give him an extra boost of energy… and while he doesn’t even know it… his body is being invaded with healthy nutrients. I guess daughters never out-grow trying to be sneaky. :) Please be sure to comment below. Many blessings, amie sue


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Ingredients:

yields 18 (1/3 cup each) bars


2 cups raw walnuts, chopped, soaked & dehydrated

1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raisins

3/4 cup raw chocolate chips

4 cups (441 g) chopped, organic apples, pulsed

3 cups (372 g) chopped organic apples, – blended

2 ripe (165 g)  bananas, blended

2 Tbsp raw sunflower nut butter (or your choice of nut butter)

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/4 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar for vegan

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

2 ripe bananas, diced


Preparation:

Make the batter:


In the food processor, pulse the walnuts, cinnamon, and salt together, breaking them down into medium-sized chunks. Place in a large bowl.

Be careful that you don’t over-process the walnuts.  They will start to release too much of their natural oils, which can make for an oily bar.

Walnuts won’t break down to a flour-like texture, just to a small crumble, which is what you want.

By adding the cinnamon and salt early on in the stage, it will ensure that their flavors will get well dispersed within the batter.




Add to the; oats, raisins, and chocolate chips to the walnuts and mix well.

Pulse 4 cups of apples in the food processor and transfer to the bowl with the walnuts.

If desired, be sure to leave small chunks for texture purposes.

If the apples are organic, leave the skins on. Otherwise, peel them.




Back in the food processor, blend; 3 more cups of apples, 2 bananas, sunflower butter, vanilla, honey, and ground flax until smooth and creamy.  Pour into the large bowl with the pulsed apples and walnuts.

Add 2 diced bananas and mix well with your hands.

Let the batter rest for 15 minutes for the flax to activate and thicken up in the batter.  The flax works as a binder.


Shape and dehydrate:


To press into bar shapes.

I used my sushi press, found (here).  Click (here) on how to shape the perfect bar,

Or you can: Pour the batter into a parchment paper-lined baking sheet with an edge, spread out, place another sheet of parchment paper on top, and using the same sized cookie sheet I placed another on top and pressed down firmly.

Place the cookie sheets in the freezer to firm up the bars for approx. 1 hour.  About the time it takes to clean up the kitchen. :)

Remove the bars when nice and cold; this will help you score them into the desired shapes.

Remove the top cookie sheet and flip the batter onto the countertop.  The batter should still be sandwiched in parchment paper.

Using a knife (be sure to protect your countertop) cut through the parchment paper, cutting the bar batter in half.

Remove the top parchment paper and using either a knife or cookie cutter, score the bars into the desired shape.




Place the individual bars on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Slide the tray into the dehydrator and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F)  for approx. 16 hours.

Store in an airtight container and place in the fridge.  These will freeze well too.

Option: You could make cookie shapes with this batter as well by using an ice scoop of any size.  Follow the same directions for dehydrating and storing.  One other option is to spread the batter out thinly on the non-stick sheets that come with your dehydrator and make granola out of it.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Learn about the wonderful characteristics of Raw Coconut Nectar (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



