Amede Pecan Pie Bars - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/amede-pecan-pie-bars/



	Amede Pecan Pie Bars

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free,  Paleo ~

I bet many of you are questioning the name of these bars.  I created this recipe last week as I was preparing for our “Goodbye” potluck, as we were heading off to Alaska.

A dear friend of ours, Leslie, came to the party and fell head-over-heels for these bars.  She asked that I name them after her.  So to honor her, I did just that!

Amede Pecan Pie Bars.

Leslie is Nigerian, and her root name is, Amede (pronounced Aaah-me, Amie :)  It means “Life given Water” and “Loved by a multitude”  How special is that!  So here you go, my dear Leslie. :)  This bar turned out divine.

Nobody could get over the fact that this was a raw dessert, which is common with most raw desserts.  I will be making this again for sure!  What a great dessert come Fall.  You could quickly adapt this into a pie pan and serve it as a pie. Oooooh, and with raw vanilla bean ice cream… Hmmm, my wheels are turning.

4/2015 Update – I originally posted this recipe back in 2010.  I made this for some company that is coming to visit, so I thought that I would update the photos.  The recipe is untouched.  You can present this recipe cut into bar shapes (which I did initially) or in slices as pictured here.

Ingredients:

Yields 9×9″ square or 7″ round Springform pan

Crust:


2 1/2 cups raw macadamia nuts or cashews, soaked & dehydrated

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Filling:


1 cup raw pecans, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup water

1/2 cup maple syrup

1 1/2 cups Medjool dates, pitted

1/2 Tbsp almond extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp cayenne pepper


Topping:


1-2 cups raw pecans, roughly chopped (soaked & dehydrated)


Preparation:

Crust:


In the food processor, using your “S” blade, process the macadamia nuts and salt to a dough-like consistency.

Be careful to not over-process.

If you do, you will release too much of the oil found in the nuts.




Press “crust” in the springform pan.


Filling:


In the food processor, break the pecans down to a fine dust.  Set aside in a bowl.

Back in the food processor bowl combine the; water, maple syrup, dates, almond extract, salt, cinnamon, and cayenne pepper. Process together.

If the dates are really dry, it will best to rehydrate them.  Place in a bowl and add enough hot water to cover them.  Let them sit for 10 minutes.

Once they are done soaking, drain, and discard the soak water.  Hand-squeeze the excess water from them.

By rehydrating them, it will make it much easier to process them into a paste.

To make Paleo, omit the agave.




Add in the ground pecans and blend to a beautiful paste.

Layer the filling on top of the crust and add the roughly chopped pecans.

Chill for a few hours to firm it up a bit.

Cut into squares, serve and enjoy!

Note – the filling layer softens when left out at room temp.

I recommend freezing this dessert.  Once frozen, cut into serving sizes and serve.

Store leftovers, single-serving pieces in the fridge for up to 5-7 days, or in the freezer for 1 month.










 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



