Ginger Peach Granola Bars (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/ginger-peach-granola-bars/



	Ginger Peach Granola Bars

													    
    


				
I have an almost identical recipe posted as granola in the recipe category of “Breakfast.”  But, I decided to re-post it since I changed the structure from loose granola to an actual granola bar, just in case you were looking for a bar recipe.

That right, there is an important lesson to learn about raw food prep. You can take one recipe and change it up… creating 1…2…3… or more recipes from one!  It causes you to look at that bowl of ingredients in a much different way. :)

This recipe has become a staple in my household.  I have to tell you that my “staples” are growing.   It used to be just flax crackers, but now the list is getting longer.   Ginger Peach Granola Bars is now another one.

My sweet husband has been asking me to make this recipe into a bar form for the ease of grabbing it as he heads out the door.  His wish is my command. :)  These bars are firm and crunchy yet chewy.  How perfect is that?!   The engineer that he is at heart,  he is going to invent some type of home press for me.  I will keep you posted on that development.

I just wanted to share a photo with you that I took of some of the bars I made recently for my truck driving dad.  I made them extra thick so they could be a meal replacement or a filling, nourishing snack!  They turned out fantastic.  So, know that you can make them thin or thick.  Enjoy and have a blessed day, amie sue
Ingredients:



yields roughly 18 (1/3 cup each) bars


5 cups (588 g) diced, organic apples

1 1/2 cups (282 g) packed Medjool dates, seeded

1/2 cup ground flax seeds

1/3 cup maple syrup (can use yacon syrup)

2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 tsp ginger powder

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cups raw almonds, soaked

3 cups raw pecans,  soaked

1 cup raw pumpkin seeds,  soaked

1 cup dried cranberries

1 cup raisins

2 cup dried peaches

Zest of 1 orange


Preparation:

Make the batter:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the diced apples, pitted dates, ground flax, sweetener, lemon juice, ginger, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt. Place in a large bowl.

If the apples are organic, leave the skins on. Otherwise, peel them.




Back in the food processor combine the; almonds, pecans, pumpkin seeds, cranberries, raisins, and peaches.  Process until they break down to a small crumble.

Pour into the bowl with the apple mixture, add the orange zest, and combine with your hands.


Shape and dehydrate:


To press into bar shapes.

I used my sushi press, found (here).  Click (here) on how to shape the perfect bar,

Or you can: Pour the batter into a parchment paper-lined baking sheet with an edge, spread out, place another sheet of parchment paper on top, and using the same sized cookie sheet I put another on top and pressed down firmly.

Place the cookie sheets in the freezer to firm up the bars for approx. 1 hour.  About the time it takes to clean up the kitchen. :)

Remove the bars when nice and cold; this will help you score them into the desired shapes.

Remove the top cookie sheet and flip the batter onto the countertop.  The batter should still be sandwiched in parchment paper.

Using a knife (be sure to protect your countertop) cut through the parchment paper, cutting the bar batter in half.

Remove the top parchment paper and using either a knife or cookie cutter, score the bars into the desired shape.




Place the individual bars on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Slide the tray into the dehydrator and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F)  for approx. 16 hours.

Store in an airtight container and place in the fridge.  These will freeze well too.

Option: You could make cookie shapes with this batter as well.  Using an ice scoop in any size.  Follow the same directions for dehydrating and storing.  One other option is to spread the mixture out thinly on the non-stick sheets that come with your dehydrator and make granola out of it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



