Chocolate Coconut Mint Brownies (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/chocolate-coconut-mint-brownies/



	Chocolate Coconut Mint Brownies

													    
    


				
– raw, vegan, gluten-free –

 

Raw brownies are about the easiest dessert that one can make. Often they don’t require dehydration, so they go together relatively quickly.

 

They are also a great treat to make for those who are new to the whole concept of eating healthier. Mind you, raw desserts are still desserts and need to be treated as such, BUT they are indeed made with whole foods that offer up way more nutrients than processed ones.

 

I decided to elevate this brownie just a tad so I could create three beautiful layers. Truthfully, you could stop after the first layer and call it delicious, but that second layer… oh man… the creamy mouth-feel and the gentle sweetness. You, too, could stop there.

 

But hey, we are on a roll here… why stop now?! As you spread that creamy, thick, and gooey ganache frosting on top, you might start devising plans on how you are going to sneak this dessert into the bedroom closet for a private eating.  Shew, that was one long run-on sentence. I am out of breath. hehe

 

If you are looking for a dessert that can be kept in the freezer for spontaneous serving, this is one of those that will serve you well. It freezes wonderfully, just be sure that it is stored in an airtight container, so freeze odors don’t creep in and spoil your work.
Ingredients:

yields 9 x 9″ pan

Brownie layer: 


1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 1/2 cup Medjool dates, pitted

1 tsp vanilla extract


Vanilla Bean Filling:


1 cup raw cashews, soaked

1 cup almond milk

6 Tbsp maple syrup

4 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 cup lucuma powder

3/4 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

2 Tbsp lecithin powder


Chocolate Coconut Mint Frosting:


1 1/2 cup maple syrup

1 1/2 cup raw cacao powder

2/3 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp peppermint extract


Chocolate Drizzle (optional):




½ cup raw cacao butter, melted

¼ cup raw cacao powder

1 Tbsp + 1 tsp mesquite powder

1 tsp maple syrup


Preparation:

Brownie layer:


In a food processor, combine the almonds, walnuts, cacao powder, and salt. Process until the nuts are a small crumble, being careful not to overprocess or the nuts will become oily.

Remove the lid and sprinkle the dates around the bowl. Add the vanilla.  Process until the batter creates a sticky batter.

The mixture should stick together when pressed between two fingers.

If the dates are dry and tough, soak them in enough water to cover them, for 15 minutes or until soft. Squeeze the excess water from them before adding them to the batter.




Press the brownie mixture into the bottom of a Springform pan or any pan that you may have! Set aside as you make your frosting.


Vanilla bean filling layer:


After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soak water.

In a high-speed blender, combine the cashews, almond milk, sweetener, lucuma, and vanilla until smooth.

While the blender is running, drizzle in the coconut oil, then quickly add the lecithin and blend just long enough until everything is well mixed.

Pour the vanilla filling over the brownie mixture nice and evenly.

Set in the freezer while you make the chocolate frosting.


Chocolate Coconut Mint Frosting:


Place the sweetener, cacao powder, coconut oil, salt, and mint extract in a blender and process until smooth.

Stop occasionally to scrape down the sides of the blender jar with a rubber spatula.

Take the brownies out of the freezer.  Make sure they have been in long enough for the vanilla filling to have hardened.  By doing this, it will give you a firm base to spread the chocolate frosting on.  Spread the chocolate frosting over the vanilla filling.  Now sprinkle the top with shredded coconut if you desire.


Chocolate Drizzle (optional):


Whisk the powders and agave into the cacao butter until thoroughly combined.

Drizzle over the brownie in a random pattern.

Place in the freezer for 5 minutes to form a hard shell.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Dates are a fantastic ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

What is raw cacao powder?

For tips on working with raw cacao butter, click (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Why I use lecithin… click (here) to read about it.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



