Nutty Cranberry Apricot Trail Mix Bars (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/nutty-cranberry-apricot-trail-mix-bars/



	Nutty Cranberry Apricot Trail Mix Bars

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Nutty Cranberry Apricot Trail Mix Bars are great as a snack as well as a cereal.  I bet you didn’t expect to read that in a bar recipe. Hehe Once dried, crumble the bars into a bowl along, pour your favorite milk over the top, and you have one hearty, filling, and nutritious cereal!

Comfort Food

This past Fall, I found myself enjoying the combination of allspice, cinnamon, and black pepper.  There is a certain depth to it that really makes a recipe, what’s the word I am looking for… grounded?  Earthy? Savory?  With those flavors rolling around, mixing it up with the sweetness of the dried fruits, well, I just find it an excellent balance that makes persons taste buds come alive.

These bars are hearty, filling, comforting, crunchy, but chewy. I love the complexity of it all.  I developed this treat for my dad, who is a long haul truck driver.  He needs foods that can keep in the semi and don’t require much fuss.  It also needs to sustain him as well as nourish his body. Mission accomplished!

I can picture him already, bouncing down the highway, a container of these in his lap, munching away and, knowing him, savoring each little morsel.  It is such a joy to prepare food for loved ones.  I do hope you enjoy this recipe. Please comment below as I love to hear from you all. Blessings, amie sue



Ingredients:

yields 32 (2 x 2″ square) bars

Dry Ingredients:


1 cup raw almonds, soaked

1 cup raw pecans, soaked

3/4 cup raw walnuts, soaked

1 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp allspice

1 tsp fresh cracked black pepper

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup coconut flakes, unsweetened


Wet Ingredients:


1/2 cup dried cranberries

1/2 cup dried apricots, diced

1 cup mission figs, dried and diced

1/2 cup raw agave or maple syrup



Hand Mix In:

1 cup raw  pumpkin seeds or sunflower seeds, soaked


Preparation:


In a medium-sized bowl, add the dried cranberries, apricots, and figs along with enough warm water to cover them so they can soften a bit.  Set aside.

Place the almonds, pecans, walnuts, cacao, cinnamon, allspice, black pepper, salt, oats, and coconut flakes into the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, and chop to medium size. Pour into a large bowl.

Drain the soaking dried fruit and place the fruit and sweetener into the food processor.  Pulse together several times.

Break down the fruit, but don’t over-process making a puree out of it. Add the nut mixture back in and process until it sticks together when pinched




Add in the nut mixture and process the two together until it holds together when pinched.

Add the raw pumpkin seeds and pulse just a few times to incorporate but not fully break down.

Roll the batter 1/2″ thick on the non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator. Cut into 2 x 2″ squares and place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees  (F) 1 hour, reduce the temp to 115 degrees (F) for an additional 6 hours or until desired dryness is achieved.

Store in a sealed container for 1-2 weeks or up to 4 weeks in the freezer.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yep!  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  It is not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



