Honey Ginger and Peach Chocolate Fudge Bars
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/honey-ginger-and-peach-chocolate-fudge-bars/



	Honey Ginger and Peach Chocolate Fudge Bars

													    
    


				~ raw, nut-free, gluten-free ~

Don’t you love the sound of the name of this fudge bar… Honey Ginger and Peach Chocolate Fudge Bars?   Sometimes it can be a real challenge to title recipe.

You want it to be simple, easy to remember, meaningful,  and yet you want the name to express the yumminess that you are about to embark upon!  If I were to call this just an ole Peach Fudge Bar… you might skip over it and miss out on the complex flavors that it presents…

The dark amber,  incredibly aromatic raw honey laced with unmistakable floral notes… or the hint of ginger which offers up a peppery, but sweet taste, or the decadent, deep, rich, luxurious flavor of chocolate that binds all these fantastic flavors together in a sweet little package for you to enjoy!!

Did these descriptions help to capture your attention?  Did it create a longing to make these sweet, morsels of joy?  If not, what’s wrong with you!? Haha. I am just messing with you.   I hope you make these; I hope you enjoy them, and I hope you made enough to share with your loved ones.

Ingredients:

Makes 12-24 brownies, depends on how big your eyes are.


4 cups Medjool dates, seeds removed

1/2 cup dried peaches, diced  (divided)

1/2 cup cold-pressed raw coconut oil, melted

1/2 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 cup raw honey

1/4 cup raw grounded flax seeds

1 tsp vanilla extract

6 Ginger and Peach tea bags, contents of (open bags and use contents)

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 1/2 ” fresh ginger, grated (I used 1 tsp ground ginger)


Preparation:


Prepare an 8×8, straight-edged pan by lining it with plastic wrap to help prevent it from sticking to the pan.  Set aside.

To make flax meal, add flax seeds to spice or coffee grinder and process to a powder.

Place all ingredients, except for 1/4 cup of dried peaches, into the food processor — process using the “S” blade until everything is well incorporated.

Remove the dough and place in a large bowl.

Add the remaining diced dried peaches and work the dough by hand.  Then using the palm of your hand, make folding motions with the dough, so everything gets evenly distributed.

Press the dough into the pan, firm and evenly.

Put the fudge in the freezer and let it sit for a least an hour or overnight.

Slice into desired sized squares and EAT!

IF you have any leftovers, I recommend storing them in the fridge as they will soften a bit.

These freeze amazingly!

Garnish ideas; after cutting into squares, drizzle each one with honey, dice up some extra dried peaches or ginger and sprinkle over the top!

Be sure to check out my Ginger Peach Ice Cream with Honey Ginger Chocolate Fudge Nuggets for more wonderful yumminess!




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Dates are a fantastic ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Hemp seeds don’t require soaking. Click (here) to learn more.

What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



