Yummy Chocolate Mint Fudge (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/yummy-chocolate-mint-fudge/



	Yummy Chocolate Mint Fudge

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Well… who doesn’t like fudge?!  This Raw Chocolate Mint Fudge is delicious, deep in flavor, but not so rich that you can’t enjoy it bite after bite.  I have been taking a new (well to me) coconut oil test run, this time I am using Tropical Traditions Virgin Coconut Oil and I have to say that I just love it.

I am a huge fan of coconut, and the first thing I do every time I open the jar is hold it under my nose and take a giant whiff!  Aah, I love the smell.  There are so many incredible health benefits to coconut, so finding ways to get it into your diet is very beneficial!

Coconut farming families produce the Tropical Traditions brand in the Philippines.  They use old-fashioned traditional methods that have been in use for hundreds of years. The coconut trees and family-owned production facilities are also certified organic.

One of the significant benefits of coconut oil is the nutritional value of medium-chain fatty acids (MCFAs). The percentage of MCFAs in coconut oil is similar to human breast milk. According to researchers, to ingest an equivalent amount of  MCFAs that a nursing infant would receive, an adult would need about 3 1/2 tablespoons of coconut oil a day.

It is recommended that you consume this amount throughout the day, along with foods that are high in fiber and protein.  However, for those not used to coconut oil in their diet, it is best to start with a much smaller dose to see how your body reacts.

I want to share more about the health benefits of coconut oil, but before I get into that, let’s jump into this recipe, whip up a batch so you can be nibbling on it while you snuggle down to do some more reading.  :)

Ingredients:

yields 13 x 9 pan


2 cups raw walnuts, soaked

2 cups raw pecans, soaked

1 1/2 cups raw almond or cashew butter

1 1/4 cups extra-virgin coconut oil, melted

1 cup raw cacao powder or cacao butter

1 cup raw coconut crystals, powdered

2 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup fresh mint, minced


Preparation:


Place the soaked nuts in the food processor and process until they reach a chunky stage.

I like to have small chunks in my fudge, but if you want it to be smoother, go ahead and process the nuts to a finer consistency.




Combine the remaining ingredients in the food processor along with the nuts.  Combine and mix thoroughly to fully incorporate all ingredients.

If you use cacao butter, it will help the fudge stay firm at room temp.




Line your pan with plastic wrap leaving a couple of inches overhanging the pan.

Pour the chocolate mixture into the pan and press to even out the mixture.  You decide on the size of the pan you want.  The smaller the pan, the thicker the fudge.  The larger the pan, the thinner the fudge.

Set pan in the fridge or freezer for about a half-hour.

Once firm cut into the desired sizes.  Keep in the fridge or freezer until ready to serve.  It does soften up a bit at room temp, making it a bit messy to eat.  But I don’t mind licking my fingers.

This fudge is terrific to make in advance and keep in the freezer for those chocolate emergencies.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw Coconut Crystals add a “brown sugar” flavor to a recipe.  Read about it (here).

What is raw cacao powder?

For tips on working with raw cacao butter, click (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Learn how to make raw almond butter by clicking (here).


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



