Gingerbread Tea Brownies
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/gingerbread-tea-brownies/



	Gingerbread Tea Brownies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, Paleo ~

It’s going to be a sad day when the holiday season passes us by… Thank goodness they make cookie cutters for every occasion, though!  Shew, I almost thought I was going to go through withdrawals.  haha

For this recipe, I used Gingerbread Chai Tea bags (contents only). I have a link posted below where you can order it through Amazon, but I found mine at my local grocery store.

If you can’t find this particular tea, you could make your own blend of gingerbread.  I put a recipe below for you.  I was so excited when I saw this tea at the store.  I stood in the aisle, sniffing the sealed tin can.  Like you can smell anything through the tin.  :)

The side of the can read; naturally, caffeine-free rooibos, artfully adorned with flavorful sweet, crisp apples, ginger, and the traditional spicy depth of cinnamon, cardamom, nutmeg, and clove. Organic and Fair Trade Certified.

As soon as I got home with it, I peeled the seal off the can, opened it, and took a DEEEEP inhale, and about choked!  I inhaled so strongly that sucked up loss tea granules that were floating around in the container, up through my nose.

Uffda!  After that “hit,” I made myself a hot cup of tea. Delicious!  That is when this recipe hit me.  I love spur of the moment creations.  I hope you do too!

Ingredients:




2 cup raw hazelnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 cup dried, unsweetened coconut

6 bags Gingerbread Chai Tea, contents only

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp ground cloves

3 cups Medjool dates, pitted


Decorating Options:


Shredded coconut

Dried cranberries

Chocolate chips

Cinnamon Date Frosting

Use your creative side!



Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, blend the hazelnuts, cacao, coconut, tea bag contents, salt, and cloves until finely ground.

Hazelnuts ~ exchange with pecans, walnuts, cashew or almonds… pretty much any nut.  Remember that other nuts will affect the overall flavor.  Pecans or walnuts might be too overpowering.

Cacao powder ~ try carob if you can’t eat raw cacao.  Again, different flavor profiles.

Make your own Gingerbread Seasoning Mix: Ingredients: yields 1/2 cup combine: 1/4 cup ground cinnamon, 1/4 cup ground ginger, 2 Tbsp allspice, 2 Tbsp ground nutmeg, 2 Tbsp ground cloves. Place all the spices in a small mason jar, put the lid on, and shake to your favorite music! Use 2-4 tsp for a cookie or brownie recipe.  Adjust to taste. Use 2 tsp in your favorite coffee or tea drink.




Add the dates, processing until well blended.

The dough will create a large ball in the food processor bowl.  Remove and wrap in plastic wrap.  Place in the freezer for 30+ minutes to chill.

Medjool dates ~ I don’t recommend substituting them due to the flavor and the texture they give the recipe.




Prepare your work surface.  Cover the surface with plastic wrap, place the dough in the center, and cover with another piece of plastic.  By doing this will help prevent the dough from sticking to the surface and rolling-pin, making life so much easier!  Roll out to 1/2″ thickness.  Be sure to roll it out even.

Using cookie cutters, cut out the shapes, and transfer to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  See the photos below for a few ideas.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees  (F) for 20-24 +/- hours until semi-firm on the outside but moist on the inside.

You can skip the drying process and enjoy them moist.  See how you like it best.




Decorate and serve.  Store in an airtight container for up to 14 days or in the freezer for several months.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



