Homemade Larabars
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/raw-peanut-butter-chocolate-chip-bar/



	Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Bar

													    
    


				



~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

If you decide to make your own peanut butter from raw peanuts, click (here) to learn how to prep the peanuts before you make the butter. If you are new to raw peanuts, they do taste very different than the roasted version.  Bob and I prefer the taste of roasted peanuts, so that is what I used in this recipe.

These bars are best enjoyed straight from the fridge or freezer.  They can handle the kitchen counter for a day or so (depending on ambient temp), but whatever you do, don’t throw them in your purse or glove compartment.  It could become a sticky mess.

If you can’t eat peanuts, feel free to use any other type of nut butter in the recipe. Enjoy!

Ingredients:



yields 16 bars


2 cups Medjool dates, pitted

2 cups raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup natural peanut butter

2 Tbsp soak water

1/2 cup raw chocolate chips or chopped dark chocolate


Preparation:

Pan Preparation:



Line an 8 x 8″ ( or smaller) pan with plastic wrap.  Set aside.

I use Press N’ Seal.

For the pan, I use one that has a removable bottom.  I love it because I wrap the base with plastic wrap.  For removal, I push the base up from the bottom of the pan and lift it out.

You can use any shape of the pan that you have one,  but I don’t recommend anything over 8 x 8 for this volume of batter

You can also grease the pan with coconut oil.







Batter:


Re-hydrating the Medjool dates.

If the dried fruit is really dry and tough, I recommend re-hydrating it.

Cover the dried fruit with enough hot water to cover it.  Set aside for 15 minutes or until soft.

Drain the soak water and hand-squeeze the excess water from the fruit.

Rehydrating them will also soften the fruit, making it easier to blend into the recipe.  Dry, hard fruit can gum up the food processor blade.





Assembling the ingredients:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, place the almonds and salt in the bowl.  Process until the nuts resemble a very small crumble.  Pour into a bowl and set aside.

Don’t over-process the nuts to where they start to reach a paste-like texture.




Back in the food processor, combine the Medjool dates, peanut butter, and 2 Tbsp of the soak water until well blended.

Add the nuts back in and pulse the batter a few times.  Then run the processor until the batter comes together like a dough.

Transfer the batter to the pan.

Press evenly and firmly.  I recommend wetting your fingers, so the batter doesn’t stick to them.

You can also use a flat spatula to create a smooth surface on the bars.




Place in the fridge or freezer for 30+ minutes to firm up.

Remove and slice into bar shapes.

Tightly wrap each bar individually in plastic wrap.

The bars will keep at room temp for roughly 2 days / 1 month in the fridge / 3 months in the freezer.





 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



