Salted Caramel and Chocolate Bars
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/raw-salted-caramel-and-chocolate-bars/



	Salted Caramel and Chocolate Bars

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Let’s start by saying that this dessert does require refrigeration or freezing.  They won’t hold up in your coat pocket for a midday snack.   When it comes to raw treats, the most popular question (outside of substitutions) is, “Does it stay firm at room temp?”  It’s essential to know these things because some recipes might not be suitable for every function.

This treat is perfect for in-home parties, where they can be removed from the fridge when they are ready to be served.  Or, they could be stored in a cooler at a picnic… that would work too.

The great thing about freezer-safe desserts is that you can make them well in advance, which can be a real stress reducer. We all lead hectic lives, and with just a bit of planning and preparation, we can enjoy the health benefits and culinary rewards of raw food desserts anytime.

Plus, I will make a hero out of you when those unexpected house guests come’a knocking, and you pull this delicious, rich, caramel treat from the freezer.  It will take longer to make a pot of tea than it will to serve this up. Hehe,   Enjoy… have fun and keep in touch.

Ingredients:

Yields 8×8 pan

Crust base:


1 cup raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cups Medjool dates

2 Tbsp coconut oil, melted


Caramel layer:


1 cup raw cashews, soaked

14 oz thick coconut milk, raw or canned

1/3 cup water

1/2 cup raw coconut nectar

1 cup Medjool dates

2 Tbsp tahini butter

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup coconut oil, melted

1 Tbsp sunflower lecithin (optional)


Top chocolate layer:


1/4 cup coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

1 tsp vanilla extract

dash Himalayan pink salt

Coarse sea salt for finishing salt


Preparation:

Crust base:


Assemble a square Springform pan with the bottom facing up, the opposite way from how it comes assembled.  This technique will help you when removing the bars from the pan, not having to fight with the lip.  Wrap the base with plastic wrap to aid in the removal of the bars. Unless you plan on serving the cake on the bottom of the pan.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse together the walnuts and salt, creating a small crumble.

Be careful that you don’t over-process the walnuts and head towards making nut butter — nothing wrong with that, just not our goal at the moment.




Add the dates and coconut oil. Process until the batter sticks together.

If the dates are really dry, I recommend rehydrating in enough hot water to cover them.  After soaking (15 min.), drain the water and hand-squeeze any excess water.

Test the batter by pinching it between your fingers.  If it holds, it is ready.




Distribute the crust evenly on the bottom of the pan, using even and gentle pressure.  Set aside.


Filling:


Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.

In a high-powered blender, combine; coconut milk, water, coconut nectar, dates, tahini, salt, and cashews.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is vital to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth if the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Pour the batter into the pan.

Gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Chill in the freezer for 4-6 hours or until firm enough (not solid) to the touch.  We want a firm surface so we can pour and spread the chocolate layer on top.


Top chocolate layer:


In a powered blender, combine the coconut oil, sweetener, cacao, vanilla, and salt.

Blend for 1-3 minutes until it is completely smooth… no grit allowed.

I find that having all the ingredients at room temp is helpful.

The chocolate will take on a glossy look when ready.

Pour the chocolate over the filling, sprinkle coarse sea salt on top, and slide back into the fridge or freezer to firm up completely.

Cut into squares and enjoy!

Storage:  airtight container / fridge 3-5 days / freezer 1-3 months.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Why I use lecithin… click (here) to read about it.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



