Peanut Butter Raisin Bars (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/peanut-butter-raisin-bars/



	Peanut Butter Raisin Bars

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Peanut Butter Raisin Bars are made with a thoughtfully crafted blend of energy-dense ingredients that will give you the natural energy we need to get out and play, work, hike, run, quilt, or shoot, even make recipes in the kitchen. (that one is my favorite hehe)

Peanuts are Not Nuts

Did you know that peanuts are not actually nuts, but instead, they are a member of a family of legumes related to peas, lentils, chickpeas, and other beans?   They start growing as a ground flower, but due to its heavyweight, it bends towards the ground and eventually burrows underground where the peanut matures.  They are an excellent source of monounsaturated fats.  Also, peanuts are a good source of niacin, folate, copper, manganese, and protein.

If you are allergic to peanuts, you could substitute it with Inchi Seed butter, which tastes pretty darn close to peanut butter. It does seem to be a little thinner than peanut butter, so a few ingredients might need to be adjusted but do-able.

Peanut butter doesn’t ever need help in making it taste better, but it does like to mingle in the presence of good company, so I added some chocolate chips. If you make the raw chips, the exterior ones will melt some while the bars are dehydrating.  But if you don’t have the means or time to make your own, they make some pretty darn good ones these days.  They may not be raw, but now they make them gluten-free, vegan, and even sugar-free (using stevia).

One last food for thought… you could get away with not dehydrating these bars if you don’t mind storing them in the freezer and then eating them right away once you take them out of the icebox. They taste amazing either way. It’s just nice to have options. I do hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, and please keep in touch. amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 18 bars

Dry Ingredients:


3 cups gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

1 cup raisins

1/4 cup flax seeds

1/2 cup shredded coconut

1 cup sliced raw almonds

1/4 cup mini chocolate chips


Wet Ingredients:


3/4 cup natural peanut butter

1/4 cup Medjool dates (5 large)

1/4 cup raw coconut butter, softened

1/4 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar for vegan

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Once the soaking process is complete, drain, and rinse the oats thoroughly until the water runs clear.

Combine the oats and remaining dry ingredients into a large bowl. Set aside.

In the food processor, combine the wet ingredients and process until well incorporated.

Mix the wet and dry ingredients until the oat mixture is evenly coated.

The batter is very thick, so you may want to use your hands, I did! Invest in some disposable gloves; it will make your life easier.




Spread the batter in the desired sized/style pan.  I used a 9 1/2 x 7  pan that I lined with parchment paper.

Press mixture into the pan, packing it nice and firm.  If you don’t wear gloves, occasionally wet your hands as you are pressing the batter into place, to prevent it from sticking to you.

Place in the freezer for a minimum of 1 hour to help with cutting the bars into their shapes.

Remove from the freezer and cut into desired shapes and sizes.

Place on the mesh dehydrator sheets that come with your machine and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hrs.

Store in an airtight container on the counter for 1 week, fridge for 2 weeks, and freezer 3-4 weeks.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Learn about the beautiful characteristics of Raw Coconut Nectar (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yep!  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  It isn’t required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment.






© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



