Long Haul™ "Fuel Bonus" Bars (Macadamia and Cherry) raw, vegan
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/raw-macadamia-cherry-bars/



	Long Haul™ “Fuel Bonus” Bars -Macadamia and Cherry-

													    
    


				

 ~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I am adding another bar to my Long Haul series.  If you haven’t seen my other ones, I have been creating them throughout the past few years for my dad, who is a trucker.   The names that I assign to them all have to do with trucker lingo.  So what is a…

Fuel Bonus?

They are “bonuses given by trucking companies to drivers who can exceed a pre-set MPG average.”   So I created this bar as a bonus to honor all his hard work and dedication to his family. Love you, dad!

In this series of bars, I have to say that this flavor combination is one of my favorites.  The macadamia nuts have a buttery hint to them, which allows the dried cherry flavor to shine through.

These bars are not just meant for truckers. Obviously, they can be enjoyed by all… but I would like to encourage those of you who know truckers or even just those who spend a lot of time traveling, to make them some of these bars to help fuel their day — sending blessings and angels to all the road warriors!

Ingredients:

yields 15 (1/4 cup) bars


1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw macadamia nuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/3 cup raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup raw hemp seeds

1 1/2 cups gluten-free, rolled oats

1/3 cup ground flaxseed

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/3 cup raw agave nectar

1 large apple

1 cup raw almond butter

1 cup dried cherries

1/2 cup diced dried bananas


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade combine the almonds and macadamia nuts.  Pulse just a few times to break the nuts up.  Leave larger chunks or break down to a small crumble… whatever consistency you prefer.  I did larger pieces for texture.

Add hemp seeds, oats, flax, and salt.  Pulse a few times and place in a large mixing bowl.

Back in the food processor, combine the agave, roughly chopped apple, and almond butter.  Process until well mixed and creamy.  Pour in the bowl of dry ingredients.

Add dried cherries and bananas.  With your hands, blend everything until well combined.

Press into bar shapes.  To learn how I make the perfect, compressed bars, click (here).

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees and continue drying for about 8 hours or until desired dryness is reached.

Store in an airtight container.  They should last 5-7 days on the counter, 2 weeks in the fridge, and several months in the freezer.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



