Raw Apricot Hemp Seed Delight Bar
https://nouveauraw.com/bars/raw-apricot-hemp-seed-delight-bar/



	Apricot Hemp Seed Delight Bar

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten, nut-free, Paleo ~

Did you know that Vitamin A is also an antioxidant that’s associated with healthy eyes?  A diet rich in Vitamin A can help prevent nighttime blindness, eye inflammation, and dry eyes.

Just one cup of dried apricot halves contains 94% of the recommended amount of Vitamin A for the day.  Granted, you won’t want to eat a whole cup of dried fruit every day.  Not only that, they add a rich layer of flavor to this delightful raw bar.

So let’s talk about these bars…  the beauty of this recipe is that you can dehydrate them or choose not to.  I tested them both ways.  If you decide not to dry them, they should be kept in the fridge or freezer for longer shelf life.  I did leave one on the counter, exposed to the open air for 10 hours, and it held up just fine. It was a little soft but held together just fine.

To extend their shelf life and to make them “travel-worthy,” I recommend dehydrating them for at least 10 hours.   Texture-wise and taste-wise, they were both wonderful… but now you have options!  I have made this recipe several times, both in bar size and bite-size, which is fun too! Enjoy!





Ingredients:

yields 16 bars


3 cups dried apricots, roughly chopped

1 cup chopped dried prunes

1 1/2 cups raw hemp seeds

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2  tsp ground nutmeg

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp vanilla seeds, scraped from vanilla pods (see below for subs)

2 Tbsp lemon juice


Preparation:


Prepare an 8×8″ pan.

I used one with a removable bottom.  I lined the base with plastic wrap to aid in removing the bars with grace and ease.

If you don’t have a removable bottom, line the pan with plastic wrap.




To soften the dried fruit (for mixing purposes), place the diced apricots and prunes in a bowl and cover with hot water.  Once soft, drain and discard the water.

In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse together the hemp seeds, cinnamon, nutmeg, salt, and vanilla to ensure that the flavors are evenly dispersed.

Vanilla substitutes:  1 vanilla bean equal 1 tsp of pure ground vanilla or 1 vanilla bean equal 3 tsp extract or 1 vanilla bean equal 1/2 tsp vanilla nectar




Add the drained apricots, prunes, and lemon juice.  Process until the batter starts to ball up as the blade goes around.  Be careful that you don’t over-process.

Press the batter into the 8×8″ pan.  Spread evenly.

Sprinkle 1/4 cup of hemp seeds on top and press down evenly with a spatula.

Place into the fridge or freezer until solid.

Remove and cut into squares.  At this point, you can enjoy them right away, or you can dehydrate them, making them less sticky and “roadworthy.”  If you skip the dehydration process, store it in the fridge or freezer.

Dehydrate – place the brownie squares on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce the heat to 115 degrees (F) and dry for at least 10 hours or longer if desired.




Store in an airtight container.  Shelf life?  About 1 month in the fridge and 3 months in the freezer.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Hemp seeds don’t require soaking. Click (here) to learn more.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



