Raw Blueberry and Forbidden Black Rice Porridge
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/blueberry-and-forbidden-black-rice-porridge/



	Blueberry and Forbidden Black Rice Porridge

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Black rice is known as purple rice or forbidden rice, and it is currently touted as the healthiest rice.  When it comes to shoes and purses, I have heard the phrase, “Black is the new brown.”  I guess I add rice to that list now.

This is a dish that is quite versatile… meaning you can use different fruits, fresh or dried.  I chose blueberries because I thought they would highlight the blue/purple tint in the black forbidden rice.  Not only that, they complement one another in flavor, drawing out the sweetness in each one.   This may come as a surprise but did you know that black rice contains more anthocyanin antioxidants than blueberries?!

Out of all the types of rice, black rice ranks the highest in the nutrition department. Here’s some information on the different rice colors on their content.

Nutritional Value Per Serving (1/4 cup uncooked):

White Rice: 180 calories, 53 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams fiber, 3 grams protein

Brown Rice: 170 calories, 46 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams fiber, 4 grams protein

Black Rice: 160 calories, 34 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams fiber, 5 grams protein

Below I provided a link that will show you how to either enjoy the black rice either raw or cooked.  If you struggle with digestive issues, I would recommend the cooked route, but you will have to make this call based on your own nutrition needs.  I for one, have to enjoy it cooked and I did just that!  :)   If you are new to forbidden rice (I like referring to it that way because it makes it sound dark and mysterious)  it tastes slightly sweet and nutty.  I also pick up a floral hint, but I can pinpoint which one, it is just-ever-so-slightly-there.   Which in the end, makes it perfect for sweet or savory recipes.

I chose to make a thick coconut milk for this recipe because after mixing the ingredients together and letting it chill in the fridge… it became nice and thick.  You can use a nut milk with this, just be sure to make it rich and creamy.   Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields 1-2 servings


1 cup cooked or sprouted forbidden black rice

1 cup raw coconut milk

2 Tbsp maple syrup

2 tsp chia seeds

1/2 tsp vanilla extract

Pinch Himalayan pink salt

Blueberries and cinnamon, for garnish


 Preparation:


After preparing the rice, add it to a single severing bowl if you are really hungry or divide it into two servings if you are in the mood to share.

Add the coconut milk, agave (or sweetener of choice), chia seeds, vanilla, and salt.  Mix and let rest for at least 15 minutes or place in the fridge overnight to enjoy for breakfast.

Sprinkle with blueberries and cinnamon. Enjoy right away or keep in the fridge for 1-2 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



