Blueberry Lavender Muffins (raw, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/blueberry-lavender-muffins-raw-vegan/



	Blueberry Lavender Muffins

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

These muffins won the blue ribbon at the Imaginary State Fair this year.

We all know what the star ingredient is when it comes to blueberry muffins… it’s the blueberries!  Plump, juicy, and sweet, with vibrant colors ranging from deep purple-blue to blue-black and highlighted by a silvery sheen called the bloom. Blueberries are one of the greatest treasures that have ever happened to muffins.

When the blueberry season is in full production, I almost find it sacrilege drowning them in recipes that disguise their plump, juicy and sweet taste.  So when it comes to using blueberries in raw muffins, I like to use dried blueberries.

Not only are they sturdier, holding up to the denser cake-like batter… dried blueberries have a more intense blueberry flavor and sweetness that works perfectly in this type of recipe.

These muffins are built upon a strong foundation of good-morning-cozy-up-to-the-fire oat flavor, supported with the buttery goodness of macadamia nuts, and generously filled with the perfect amount of a sweet burst of blueberries.  All rounded out with a gentle note of lavender.

I want to mention again that I added macadamia nuts to this recipe.  They are full of antioxidants, monounsaturated fats, and have a rich, buttery flavor.  Wish to skip them?  Go ahead, but you will also be skipping out on what helps to develop the overall flavor that won the blue ribbon Imaginary State Fair this year! :)

Ingredients:

Yields: 10 (1/3 cup) muffins

2 1/2 cups GF rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw macadamia nuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup flax seed, ground

1/4 cup raw coconut crystals

1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp dried culinary grade lavender

1/3 cup maple syrup

2 ripe bananas

1 cup dried blueberries, re-hydrated




Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the oats, macadamia nuts, ground flax, coconut crystals, cinnamon, salt, and lavender.  Process for about 10 seconds, mixing all the dry ingredients together.

Add the maple syrup, and bananas and process again until everything is well mixed.

Toss in the blueberries and pulse it all together.

Line each muffin cavity with two liners.  I find two are better than one with raw muffins due to the oils from the nuts, etc.

Measure out 1/3 cup of batter and roll it into a ball in the palm of your hands.

Drop into the cupcake liner and gently press down into shape. Don’t flatten the top; the dome-shaped top will give it that cooked appearance.

Place the muffins/liners on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F)  for 1 hour, reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry for 5-6 hours. Long enough for a crust to form on the outside but the inside still remains moist.

Store leftovers in the fridge in an airtight container for 5-7 days.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


 








© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



