Nutty Gingerbread Muesli
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/nutty-gingerbread-muesli/



	Nutty Gingerbread Muesli

													    
    


				– RAW / VEGAN / GLUTEN-FREE –

Oh yes! It is that time of year… Fall. The air is brisk and chilly, the house is warm and cozy and I am ready to tuck myself within for the winter months. When this time of year rolls around all I can think of is sewing, writing, creating recipes, working on art projects… all while sipping a rich aromatic tea. Do you ever wonder why or how a quick whiff of cinnamon, nutmeg, or cloves can trigger a cascade of memories?



The sense of smell releases signals that travel from the neurons in your nostrils to your brain’s sensory centers, taking detours through the amygdala and hippocampus, which process emotions and memories. It’s well documented that the sense of smell and memory are closely linked.

So, are you ready to bring the scent of Autumn into your home?  The smell of spiced desserts, the aroma of firewood, and the warm scent of vanilla might make us feel warm and cozy inside. It’s triggers like these that make us say funny things such as, “Mmm…smells like sweater weather.”



It’s been sort of humorous around here for the past few months. I had mentioned in our Facebook group that Bob was put on the AIP (autoimmune Paleo diet) and I was put on a specific low FODmap diet. Let’s just say that our eating has been rather boring as we try to juggle who can eat what.  We are a little over two months in and we are noticing some positive shifts. These types of diets are not meant for long-term, so in about a month we will revisit things and hopefully start adding foods back in.

All that to say that when you are on an elimination diet, a person seems to crave everything that they can’t have. Like this muesli! I just couldn’t resist making it, even though I knew I couldn’t eat it (right now). But I have family coming soon so I will store it in the freezer for them.

I know at least a handful (if not more) of you don’t own a dehydrator so I did bake some it so I could share with you the outcome of that. The main thing is to keep an eye on it towards the end; it browns quickly. I did find the dehydrated batch to be more crunchy, but the cooked version turned out well too.  Well, I am going to let you go for now. I hope that you are all enjoying the Fall weather. blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 12 cups




3 cups (290 g) gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked

2 cups (256 g) raw almonds, soaked

1 cup (135 g) macadamia nuts, soaked

1 cup (160 g) cashews, soaked

1/2 cup (75 g) pumpkin seeds, soaked

1/2 cup (95 g) buckwheat, soaked

1 Tbsp (7 g) ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 1/2 tsp (4 g) ground ginger

1 1/2 tsp (4 g) fresh cracked black pepper

1 tsp (3 g) ground cloves

1/2 tsp (3 g) Himalayan pink salt

2 cups (95 g) coconut flakes, unsweetened

3/4 cup (105 g) dried cherries or cranberries

2 cups (320 g) packed Medjool dates, pitted

1 cup (215 g) water


Preparation:

Dehydrating Option


Have 4 dehydrator trays ready to go.  Place non-stick sheets on top of the mesh sheets.

If you don’t have any non-stick sheets, you can use parchment paper, but not wax.




After soaking the oats, nuts, and seeds, drain, rinse, and discard the water from them.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, add the oats, nuts, seeds, along with the cinnamon, ginger, black pepper, cloves, and salt.  Pulse the nuts until they are medium-sized chunks.   Place a large bowl.

By adding the spice in during this step, you enjoy a better distribution of flavor.




Add to the bowl the coconut flakes and cranberries. Toss together with your fingers, making sure everything is well mixed.

Back in the food processor process the dates and water until it is nice and creamy.  Pour into the bowl of dry ingredients and mix well with your hands.

Place around 3 cups of batter on each tray.  Spread it out so air can circulate around it.

Dehydrate at 145 (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for 8-10 hours or until dry.

Once done and cooled, break the granola up. Place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade and pulse into small bits.

Muesli is often enjoyed after soaking in your favorite nut milk for 30 minutes (If you like it crunchy) or overnight for a more porridge-like texture. (my fav).  I also love soaking it in raw coconut yogurt.

Store in an airtight container.  Should last several weeks on the counter.  This will freeze well for several months too!


Baking Option


If you don’t own a dehydrator, you can bake this granola in the oven at 350 degrees (F) for 30 minutes.

Be sure to spread the cereal in a thin layer, so it cooks evenly.

Halfway through, give the cereal a stir.

Allow it to cool thoroughly before storing it.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Click (here) for my thoughts on raw agave nectar.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


Gathering all the components together in a large mixing bowl.

Mix everything together so all the flavors are well dispersed.

Dehydrating Option – spread a thin layer on the non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Baking Option – Spread a nice thin layer on a pan lined with parchment paper.

Enjoy with your favorite non-dairy milk and top with any seasonal fruit.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



