Roasted Pistachio and Ginger Muesli
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/roasted-pistachio-and-ginger-muesli/



	Roasted Pistachio and Ginger Muesli

													    
    


				 

~ high-raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe may not sound like the typical muesli, look at the ingredient list… black pepper? Olive oil? In my cereal? Hold on, don’t go anywhere… it turned out amazing. I promise. I do my best never to steer you wrong. :)

By mistake, when making this for the first time, I grabbed roasted and salted pistachios and much to my delight it tasted wonderful.  I found that I enjoyed it more so than with raw pistachios.  I realize that doesn’t qualify this muesli as a completely raw recipe, so I have tagged it high- raw.  You can always try it with raw pistachios, but for me, I totally prefer the roasted ones for this particular recipe.

If you are new to eating muesli cereal, it is a Scandinavian breakfast which they pour milk, yogurt, and sometimes fruit juice over.  They then let it rest for anywhere from thirty minutes to overnight.  It turns it into a porridge-like breakfast with little bits of crunch from the nuts.  I personally enjoy it soaked for an extended time with almond milk.

While it soaks, some of the flavors seep into the liquid which makes it all that much more delicious.  I couldn’t help but to lift the bowl to my lips and slurp it down.   No crumb of cereal or drop of milk escaped me! hehe

I would love to encourage you to make this recipe as is before you go about switching,m up the ingredients.  It is such a unique and delicious combination of flavors.  Sweet, salty, earthy, nutty, oaty, and warming from the ginger, cinnamon, and black pepper.  What a wonderful way to start the day!  Enjoy and please keep in touch. I always love to read what you think and what you have to say.  amie sue

Ingredients:

yields roughly 3-4 cups


2 1/2 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked

1 cup buckwheat, soaked

1 cup roasted pistachios

1 cup raisins

1/2 cup diced, crystallized ginger



1/2 cup date pate

1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil

1/4 cup water

2 Tbsp psyllium husks

1/2 tsp liquid stevia

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp coarse black pepper

1/4 tsp Allspice seasoning


Preparation:



After soaking the oats and buckwheat, drain and discard the soak water.

Rinse each one until the water starts to run clear, this takes a little extra time, but well worth it.




In a large bowl combine; oats, buckwheat, pistachios, raisins, and dried ginger, date paste, oil, water, stevia, salt, cinnamon, black pepper, and allspice.  With your hands, mix well to ensure everything gets well mixed.

If you can’t find Allspice you can make your own by combining the following in a small jar; 2 tsp cinnamon, 1 tsp ground clove, 1 tsp black pepper, and 1 tsp ground nutmeg. Put the lid on and shake.




Spread the batter onto the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours or until dry.

The dry time will vary depending on the climate, humidity, model of the dehydrator and how full it is.

Halfway through, transfer the batter to the mesh sheet, removing the teflex sheet to speed up the dry time.




Cool to room temperature and place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.

Pulse to a small crumble to create a muesli/ porridge-like texture.




Store in an airtight container. In the pantry, this should keep for 1-2 weeks, fridge 2-4 weeks, freezer 1-3 months.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



Click (here) to learn why I use stevia.

Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



