Cinnamon Raisin Winter Pear Cereal (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/cinnamon-raisin-winter-pear-cereal/



	Cinnamon Raisin Winter Pear Cereal

													    
    


				Who doesn’t appreciate a hearty granola cereal for breakfast!?  This one is packed full of flavor and nutrition.  To be honest, it tasted just as good before I dehydrated it.  I could have eaten a bowl of it then! So keep that in mind if you don’t own a dehydrator or have the extra time.

You can customize this recipe as well by adding any of your favorite dried fruits to it. It would taste excellent with freshly sliced bananas on top as well.  Here I am serving it with fresh almond milk that I had just made, along with some dried pear chunks.

Make sure that whichever fresh fruit you choose to use, is delicious and ripe! Taste test it before you use it because poor ingredients can make or break the recipe.  I have made it with both apples and pears, and I almost enjoyed the pear one over the apple… and I am an apple lover. :)

I should make sure to point out that this cereal doesn’t dry to a crispy crispness.  It retains a slight chew, which is perfect because it gives the cereal a nice hardiness.

And as far as the sweetness goes… select and use the one that you most prefer.  I have made it with a mix of honey and maple syrup and it turned out to be our favorite.

I published this recipe on 2/18/11.  Today, I made this and just fell in love with it all over again.  I took some new photos and cleaned up my preparation section.  My recipe writing skills have gotten so much better as the years have passed. :) I hope you have a blessed day. Please comment below! amie sue

Ingredients: 

Yield roughly 8 cups dried




4 cups gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

4 cups organic apple or pears, chopped (3 medium apples)

3/4 cup raw or almond cashew butter

1/4 cup raw honey or maple syrup

1/4 cup maple syrup

2 Tbsp coconut oil, melted

1 1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup raisins

1 cup shredded dried coconut


Preparation:


Soak the oats, as indicated in the link above.

Once done soaking, drain and rinse the oats for about 2  minutes under cool water.

Hand squeeze the excess water.  Set aside.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade,  place the chopped apples/pears, nut butter, sweeteners, coconut oil, cinnamon, and salt… process until the fruit is chunky in texture and everything is well mixed.  Pour into a large bowl.

Add the oats, raisins, and coconut.  Mix well. I like to use my hands… get in touch with my food. :)

Spread the mixture evenly onto nonstick teflex dehydrator sheets.

The mixture should be no more than 1/4″ thick, the thinner you spread the mixture, the quicker it will dry.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8-10 hrs or until dry.

Partway through the dry time, flip the granola over onto the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and peel off the nonstick sheet.

Continue to dry. This cereal doesn’t dry crispy, crumbly dry.  It has a nice subtle chew to it.

This cereal will try to fool you. Towards the end of the dry time, remove a few pieces, and let them cool. Test for doneness. Once it cools, it tends to crisp up.




Once cooled, lay the sheet of dried batter on the cutting board, and with a sharp knife, chop into small pieces. Think cereal-bite sized pieces.

Store on the counter in a sealed container for 2 weeks, fridge 2-4 weeks, and the freezer for 1-3 months.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients




Raw honey isn’t vegan, but I still use it now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



