Cultured Young Thai Coconut Yogurt (with rejuvelac)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/cultured-young-thai-coconut-yogurt-rejuvelac/



	Cultured Young Thai Coconut Yogurt | Using Rejuvelac

													    
    


				There are many ways to culture young Thai coconut when making homemade yogurt.  Each method deserves its own posting, because there is always so much to learn about each technique.

Sprouted Quinoa Rejuvelac…

Speaking of which, today I used sprouted quinoa rejuvelac to ferment my yogurt.  I will be honest… I learned how to make rejuvelac many years ago, but the desire to explore it never really stuck. Everything comes into focus in its due time, I guess, and today is its due time. I did a separate posting on how to make it, and you will find a link below within the ingredient list.

Where I Buy My Coconut Meat…

I purchase coconut meat through Exocticsuperfoods.com. I have been ordering from them for about five years now, and truthfully it’s just about the only way that I buy young Thai coconut meat anymore. Long gone are my days of cracking open cases of coconuts to process the meat and water, and then freezing it till I have a recipe inspiration.  Even though their price may seem high, in the end, I find it much cheaper and more reliable.

If you decide to crack your own coconuts, make sure that you remove all of the brown membranes from the white meat. And since the meat inside of the young Thai coconuts is unpredictable, it can take anywhere from two to four coconuts to get enough meat to make your yogurt. Please check out (this) post that I did regarding young Thai coconuts. I think you will find it helpful. :)

Ingredients:

Yields 2-3 cups


2 cups (1 lb) young Thai coconut meat (2-4 coconuts )

1/2 cup warm water

1/4 cup rejuvelac

20 drops liquid stevia


Preparation:


First and foremost, make sure all of the utensils and pieces of equipment you use for culturing are sterilized, to avoid growing bad bacteria.

If at any time you see mold–fuzzy, pink, or black–it will need to be tossed.




Place the coconut meat, water,  rejuvelac, and stevia in the blender and blend until smooth.

Don’t let the mixture overheat in the blender, as the probiotics can be damaged.

Use a glass jar or bowl that has been washed and rinsed in hot water.  Transfer the yogurt to the fermenting container.

Cover and place in a dark spot for 24-48 hours.

If you wish to speed up the process, you can place the container in a dehydrator set at 110 (F) for  4 – 7 hours.

Taste test and see if you want it to ferment longer.




Store your yogurt in the fridge with a tight lid.  It should last for 5 days.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



