Strawberry Cinnamon Raisin Buckwheat Crisps Cereal
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/strawberry-cinnamon-raisin-buckwheat-crisps-cereal/



	Strawberry Cinnamon Raisin Buckwheat Crisps Cereal

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

My husband isn’t much of a breakfast eater, well actually he goes through spells.  This morning I made a bowl of the Strawberry Cinnamon Raisin Buckwheat Crisps Cereal (wow that is a mouthful, in more ways than one) and snuggled up on the couch as I peacefully ate my cereal, pondering on what the day would hold for me.

As Bob walked by, I asked if he wanted to try a bite.  At first, I got the typical “no thanks” response, but soon, he asked for a taste. I’m not sure what changed his mind.  Was it the moaning and groaning sounds that I made with each spoonful?  Whatever the reason, he was ready to see just what the heck was making me enjoy my cereal so much.

I held a spoonful up, and he bent down to take the bite.  Chewing as he walked away, over his shoulder, he threw out a “That’s pretty good.”  It surprised me because I really haven’t ever known for him to be a “granola” person.  “Would you like a bowl?”… “No, thanks.”

 A few minutes later, he was up and wandering around the kitchen.   “Where can I find that stuff?!”  It was still in the dehydrator, so I got up prepared a bowl full for him.  I always love it when he enjoys the raw recipes I make.  It makes me feel good that I am satisfying his taste buds, filling his belly, and helping him to eat a healthy diet.  It is a blessing for me.
Know your buckwheat…

Are you confused about buckwheat?  Does the fact that the work contains “wheat” make you think that this isn’t a gluten-free option.  If so, I am here to expel that myth.  Buckwheat groats are indeed gluten-free (watch for cross-contamination).  Many people also think that they are a grain.  Buckwheat is the seed of a broadleaf plant related to rhubarb.  To keep this recipe raw, it is essential to know what you are shopping for.  Hulled buckwheat kernels (called groats) are pale tan-to-green while the roasted buckwheat groats known as kasha. The roasted kernels won’t sprout because they are “dead.”

If you are interested in how buckwheat grows, how it is harvested, and how it is used, please click (here). I did a detailed post and found all of it so interested. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


2 cups buckwheat groats, soaked (yields 3 1/2 cups)

1 1/2 cup raw, gluten-free oats, soaked

1/2 cup hemp seeds

2/3 cup maple syrup

1 cup raisins

3 Tbsp organic strawberry powder

2 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:

Prepping the buckwheat & oats:


Place the buckwheat in a large bowl and cover with 6 cups of water.  The buckwheat will begin to swell as it sits in the water.

Soak for 30 minutes.

After soaking, place them in a mesh colander and rinse until the water is clear; this will take some patience.  You will notice that the draining water is cloudy and slippery-like.  Rinse until you don’t detect either.




For the oats, follow the link above on how to soak the oats.

Once done soaking, rinse thoroughly until the water runs clear.

Hand-squeeze the excess water from them before adding to the other ingredients.





Combine:


In a large bowl, combine the buckwheat, oats, hemp seeds, sweetener, strawberry powder, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt.  Mix until well incorporated.

You can add the raisins now or wait until the cereal is done.




Spread the mixture out on non-stick teflex sheets that came with the dehydrator about 1/8″ thick.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8-12 hours.  Flip over and remove the teflex sheet and continue drying them on the mesh sheet until crispy.

Break into small pieces and store in an airtight glass container.

Serve with your favorite nut milk.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



