Banana Bread Muesli (raw, gluten-free, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/banana-bread-muesli-raw-gluten-free-vegan/



	Banana Bread Muesli

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free, vegan ~

This breakfast cereal couldn’t have come at a better time.  As the days are growing shorter and the air is crisping up… my morning routine is shifting into warming and comforting foods.

But that’s not the only thing shifting.  For starters, when the colder months roll around, my internal clock allows me to sleep in.  Rather than naturally waking up at 6:37 am… I am allowed to sleep in till 6:58 am!  I am serious with a slightly sarcastic undertone. hehe

I wake up, waddle to the bathroom (door shuts) Sorry, but this is my private space… from there, I slip on my fuzzy slipper socks. You know the ones with rubber grippers on the soles… these prevent me from skidding all over the place in my half-wakened stupor.

I can hardly open my eyes, the Sandman visited last night and left a hefty deposit… yet somehow I manage to build a roaring camp-girl-fire in the fireplace.

As I stand in front of the fire, my eyes are starting to take focus, my toes are feeling all cuddly with one another, and my biscuits are feeling downright toasty.  The day is beginning to take shape, and my stomach grumbles to make its presence known.  It’s time for a bowl of Banana Bread Muesli!

Who doesn’t want to hold a bowl of cereal that reminds them of their grandmother’s homemade, fresh-baked, banana bread? And if not, why not?  Clearly, you have yet to experience the aroma of fresh out of the oven-baked banana bread!  If you don’t hold such memories within yourself, its ok, I am here to bring these happy moments into your life, and we are going to start right here, right now… so grab your apron and let’s get busy.

Ingredients:



yields 6-7 cups muesli


4 cups raw, gluten-free oats, soaked

2 cups raw chopped walnuts, soaked

2 cups fresh, diced banana slices

1 cup raisins


Wet Ingredients:


2 large ripe mashed banana

1/3 cup raw honey or maple syrup

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Stevia NuNaturals liquid

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


After soaking the oats, drain and discard the soak water.  Rinse under cool water for 2 minutes. Set aside.

Drain and discard the soak water from the walnuts and give them a final rinse before adding to a  bowl. Set aside.

In a medium-size bowl, mash the two bananas with a fork.  Leave it chunky.

Add the sweetener, cinnamon, stevia, vanilla, and salt.  Mix well.

Now add the oats, walnuts, sliced bananas, and raisins.  With your hands toss everything together.  Be careful not to mash the sliced banana too much.

Spread the batter on the non-stick sheets that come with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry for roughly 16 hrs or until dry.

Partway into the drying process, once it starts to dry, transfer the batter to the mesh screens and complete the drying process on these.  This will speed up the dry time.




Once cooled to room temp, place the dried batter into the food processor and pulse to a small crumble, porridge / muesli-like texture.

Store in an airtight sealed container for several weeks.  To extend the shelf life, you can store it in the fridge or freeze for up to 3 months.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



