Strawberry Banana Nut Muesli (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/strawberry-banana-nut-muesli/



	Strawberry Banana Nut Muesli

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This simple cereal is packed with flavor, with the sun-kissed sweetness of the strawberries, the earthy richness of maple syrup, the creaminess of the homemade almond milk and the spicy, woodsy flavor of the cinnamon.

I am in love with muesli style cereals.  I love them with almond milk poured over the top… taking in one spoonful at a time.  I love them soaked in milk for an hour. I even love them soaked overnight… sitting there waiting for me to wake up!  Another great way that I really really enjoy is with yogurt swirled in.  It just sends me to the moon… don’t forget to get a round trip ticket. hehe

Bugs in my kitchen!!

So, I was in the kitchen creating a few recipes. I had Christmas music playing (yes Christmas music), I was singing, dancing, and swiftly moving about the kitchen… tossing spices here, oats there, and just having a grand ole’ time. With a dehydrator tray in hand, making my way to the pantry, I spotted a bug on the floor.

In all my grace and glory, I screamed and darted the opposite direction… losing balance of the tray in hand, I slipped and tripped and wiped out on the floor… I was now eye level with the BUG!! OMG!!!! I froze. I quickly marveled at my skills which allowed me to keep the tray high in the air with all cereal still on it.

I took a deep breath, turned my head and spied the bug…. I squinted to focus on just what type of bug it was that caused SUCH a commotion… it was a raisin!! OY-VEY!  I regained my composure, stood up, put the tray in the dehydrator, popped the “bug” in my mouth and limped away (think I pulled a muscle in my right ovary! lol) Ever have days like that?  The things I go through just to create a cereal! Hehe,  I really hope that I have somehow inspired you to make this recipe. I would love to hear what you think down below in the comment section.

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 5 cups muesli


2 cups gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

1 cup raw cashews, soaked

1 cup raw almonds, soaked

1 cup raw pecans, soaked

1 cup flax seeds

8 ripe bananas

16 oz strawberries, organic (I used frozen ones that were thawed)

1/2 cup maple syrup or equivalent

3 Tbsp chia seeds

1 Tbsp lemon juice

1/2 tsp sea Himalayan pink salt

2 bananas, ripe (I sliced these, tossed them with cinnamon and then dehydrated)

2 cups fresh strawberries, organic (sliced and dehydrated)


Preparation:


After soaking the oats, drain and rinse for 2 minutes under cool water.

Use your fingers to agitate them.

Hand squeeze the excess water and place in a large bowl.




Drain and rinse the nuts.  Place them in the food processor, pulse chop into small- medium bits.  Add to the bowl with the oats and flax seeds.

Place the flax seeds in grinder and pulse a few times, just enough to crack their shell.  This will help your body in absorbing their nutrients.  Don’t over process and make it into flour.




Back in the food processor combine; 8 bananas, 16 oz strawberries, sweetener, chia seeds, lemon juice, and salt.  Process until everything is nice and creamy.

Pour the “sauce” over the oats/nuts/seeds and mix until everything is well coated.

Set aside and give the chia/flax seeds some time to absorb any loose liquid.  Maybe 10-20 minutes.

During this wait time, you can tend to the remaining bananas and fresh strawberries.




Take the 2 remaining bananas, the 2 cups of fresh strawberries and slice them all up.  Place them on the mesh sheets that come with your dehydrator.

Now take the cereal mixture that has thickened up and spread it on the non-stick teflex sheets. The thinner you spread it, the quicker it will dry.

Dehydrate everything at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hours.

At the half-way mark remove the teflex sheets, allowing the granola to continue drying on the mesh sheets until it is dry.

Dry times will always vary depending on the climate, humidity and how thick or thin you spread the mixture.




Once done and cooled, place in the food processor and process until it reaches a small crumble.

Store in a glass container.

Enjoy with milk, yogurt, or even juice.  I like to add almond milk and let it sit overnight.  It creates a nice porridge-like texture with small crunchy bits.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind you own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 

 

 

 







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



