Raw Tropical Plantain and Mango Buckwheat Cereal
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/raw-tropical-plantain-and-mango-buckwheat-cereal/



	Tropical Plantain and Mango Buckwheat Cereal

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Here is a tropical delight heightened by a topping of diced mango, shredded coconut, a light dusting of ground cinnamon and raw coconut crystals.  I swear that I could feel a tropical breeze whisk through my hair and sand in my socks.

This cereal is extra crispy and not too sweet.  You can increase the sweetness by adding more agave or your favorite sweetener.  But sometimes it is nice just to add it as needed for each individual serving.   I made almond milk that had been lightly sweetened with my vanilla infused agave and let me say that it was a perfect match for this cereal.

I used a plantain in this recipe, but you could substitute it with a banana if you wish.  Did you know that plantains are perfect to use at any stage of ripeness?  Green plantains are starchy like a potato… yellow ones are slightly sweeter and softer… and black ones are at the peak of all sweetness!  The flesh may be yellow or pinkish and are a good source of vitamins  A and C.  When eaten raw they say that you get 10 percent more magnesium, phosphorus, and potassium.

Being new to them, I commonly read that they ought to be steamed, boiled, grilled, fried or baked… nowhere did it state that you can’t dehydrate them!  A lot of resources state that they shouldn’t be eaten raw, but on further investigation, I learned that they are referring to the plantain when it is in the green stage.   They can be bitter, starchy and best enjoyed cooked when green.  But if you allow them to ripen to a nice black color on the skin, you will have a sweet fruit that can be thoroughly enjoyed.

If you need your plantain to ripen before using be ready for an exercise in patience.  There is a special technique in ripping plantains… you set them on the counter to sit, sit, sit, and sit, and then sit some more until the peels are completely black and wrinkly.  You can occasionally poke them, but don’t take out your impatient frustration on the poor things and poke them too much because you’ll end up bruising the flesh and cause them to ferment.   Then all your valiant precious time of patience will be for nothing.   Just to share with you that I am not joking here, know this… Bananas go from very green to ripe in about 7 to 11 days, depending on temperature and other factors.   Plantains, on the other hand, can take as long as three or four weeks to become completely ripe.

Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups dry cereal


1 1/2 cup dry buckwheat, soaked 30+ minutes

1 large, ripe mango

1 large ripe (blackened) plantain

2 Tbsp raw agave nectar

1 cup shredded coconut

2 tsp vanilla

1 tsp ground cinnamon


Preparation:


Soak the buckwheat in 3 cups of water for at least 30 minutes.  Don’t soak overnight.  Buckwheat absorbs liquids, and if left to long, it can start to spoil.  Once done soaking, drain and discard the soak water.  Rinse the buckwheat for about 5 minutes or until the water runs clear.  If there is mucilage still dripping from the colander, keep rinsing.   Add to a medium sized bowl.

In the blender, combine the mango (remove skin and seed), peeled plantain, agave, vanilla, and cinnamon.  Blend until smooth.  This came to 2 1/2 cups of puree for me.  So you might have to add more of the fruits to reach that, depends on the size of the fruit.

Pour into the bowl with the buckwheat and add shredded coconut and stir everything together.

Spread about 1 1/2 cups worth of batter on each teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  If you don’t have these, use parchment paper, but no wax paper.

Dry at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 6-8 hours or until completely dry.

Store in an airtight container for several weeks or in the freezer for 2-3 months


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



