Crunchy Buckwheat Cereal (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, grain-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/crunchy-buckwheat-cereal/



	Crunchy Buckwheat Cereal

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, grain-free ~

Are you confused about buckwheat?  Does the fact that the name contains “wheat” make you think that this isn’t a gluten-free option?

If so, I am here to expel that myth. Buckwheat groats are indeed gluten-free. The one thing that you do however need to watch for is cross contamination, so be sure that the bag reads, “gluten-free.” It’s as simple as that.

Many people also think that it is a grain. Buckwheat is actually the seed of a broadleaf plant related to rhubarb. Hulled buckwheat kernels (called groats) are pale tan-to-green, while the roasted buckwheat is known as kasha. Roasted buckwheat won’t sprout because it is “dead.”

Preparing Buckwheat Groats

You will notice that in my recipes, I always recommended that you soak any grains, nuts, or seeds. They all have phytic acid in them which makes it difficult for our digestive system to break them down.  It seems like more and more people these days suffer from weak digestive systems. And as we all know improper digestion can lead to a toxic body and a host of health issues.


Hulled Buckwheat is one of the quickest seeds to use – soak ’em for thirty minutes, rinse thoroughly and you are good to move on with the recipe. Or take it to the next level of sprouting which will take roughly thirty-six to forty-eight hours. When I created this recipe, I didn’t have time to sprout the buckwheat fully, but if you do, I highly recommend doing so.  It’s a great way to boost the nutrient level. Buckwheat groats have a nutty flavor, and once soaked they are plump and extremely tender. You can enjoy them in their soft, soaked stage or you can dehydrate them which gives a crunchy texture, as well as extending their shelf-life.

This cereal is simple, nutritious, and can be dressed up with so many wonderful flavors. Sometimes it is just nice to have a blank canvas to work with. That way you can change it up daily.

Ingredients:

yields a quart jar worth of dried cereal


1 1/2 cup hulled buckwheat groats, soaked & sprouted

1/2 cup organic raw apple sauce

1/4 cup maple syrup (not raw)

2 Tbsp raw almond butter

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon


Preparation:


After the buckwheat has been soaked, you can use right away or sprout them.

To use right away, soak for only 30 minutes.




Drain and rinse till the cows come home (meaning for a long time).  Rinse until the water runs clear and no longer has a mucilage viscosity. This will help remove some of the bitterness.

In a large bowl combine buckwheat, applesauce, maple syrup, almond butter, vanilla, and cinnamon. Mix well.

Pour the batter onto a non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

You can use parchment paper but not wax paper (food will stick).




With an off-set spatula, spread the batter from one edge to another.

Don’t worry about getting batter on the sides of the tray.  Once done spreading you can wipe it clean with a paper towel.




Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for around 4 hours or until it is dry enough to flip over onto a mesh sheet, then gently peeling off the non-stick sheet.

I left the cereal on the non-stick sheet through the night and never flipped it. By morning it was completely dry.  So use whatever method works best with your day.




Continue to dry until crispy.

The cereal will break when you attempt to lift the sheet.  That is to be expected; I didn’t create it to be in squares.

Place enough of the cereal into a quart jar to fill it half-way.  Place the lid on and shake.  It will break it down into small pieces, much like a Grape Nut Cereal texture (if you are familiar with that).

Remove the lid and add the remaining cereal.  Place the lid on and shake again.

The cereal is now ready to be stored and enjoyed.




Store in an airtight container in the pantry for 2-4 weeks.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



