Sweet Cauliflower Porridge (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, AIP)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/sweet-cauliflower-porridge/



	Sweet Cauliflower Porridge

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, AIP ~

Cauliflower for breakfast, does that seem weird? Oh, how we limit ourselves to all the wonderful possibilities that food can present. We just have to be open-minded and allow the “never heard of’s” to be explored. And that my friends is exactly what I did with this recipe.

Letting go of Bitterness

Emotionally, we must let go of bitterness, but today I am talking about culinary bitterness, the one that many people dislike about cauliflower. But I am going to share with you a few tricks of the trade to help diminish that flavor note, so you can sing notes of glee with each bite you take.

Putting aside that possible bitterness that might cause you to turn from this recipe, I bet some of you are also struggling with the idea of enjoying cauliflower as a sweet porridge too. I understand and can’t blame you.  But if you have been following NouveauRaw for a while and have made many of my recipes, you will know that I wouldn’t steer you wrong.

There are a couple of ways to prepare cauliflower for this dish, raw or steamed. If you struggle digesting raw cruciferous vegetables (cauliflower is one of those), I recommend the steaming method, which is what I did. Not only is it easier to digest, but it will also have a creamy mouth-feel.

Let’s chat about the ingredients that I pulled together to create this fine dish. I added a pinch of sea salt to block the bitterness and to draw out the slight natural sweetness that can be found in cauliflower. I then selected a healthy tasty fat… coconut milk… to mellow the flavor, because fats dull our taste buds and can soften the bitterness. And believe it or not, bitter vegetables respond well to hints of sweetness, that is why I added stevia. Feel free to use any sweetener you want. This recipe can teach you a lot if you take the time to read through all that I am sharing.   :)

On a side note… Did you know that you can reduce the amount of bitterness in cauliflower right in your own garden? Cauliflower that is exposed to too much sun while it grows can develop a bitter flavor. If you are lucky enough to be growing your own, you can head off those bitter notes by protecting the growing heads from direct rays through a process called “blanching.”  You can read more about that (here) if you are interested.

Raw Version

If you’re committed to enjoying your vegetables raw and want to keep this dish 100% raw, you can also decrease the offending flavor by soaking it in very cold water ahead of time.  Prep the cauliflower by placing it in the food processor and pulse to a rice-sized texture, then place in a bowl with water and a few ice cubes. Let it sit for thirty minutes up to a few hours. The chill actually sweetens the cauliflower, making it easier to adore (if you struggle with the flavor, that is).

Steamed Version

Similar to the method mentioned above, heat also mellows the bitter flavors. As  I already mentioned, if your digestion is compromised at all, I highly recommend steaming cruciferous vegetables. Your belly will be much happier with you.  Steamed cauliflower retains a hundred percent of all minerals, but on the other hand, you can lose roughly five to ten percent of the vitamins. (1)  A small price to pay if you suffer from belly bloat and other stomach discomforts when eating too much raw. Learn to listen to that inner voice. Become one with the belly. :)

There are so many different ways that you can dress this porridge up or down, but I kept it simple and clean. I am following the AIP (autoimmune protocol) guidelines for a little bit to reset my body and reduce foods that could cause any inflammation within.  I suggest that you make the recipe as is, then build upon it as you see fit. Enjoy! amie sue

Ingredients:


2 cups steamed cauliflower

1/4 – 1/2 cup coconut milk, raw or canned

NuNatural Stevia to taste

Cinnamon


Raw Cauliflower Riced Version:


Break the cauliflower into small florets,  place them in the food processor bowl fitted with the “S” blade. Pulse until it reaches a rice-size texture. Pour into a bowl.

Cover with cold water and a few ice cubes and let sit for 30 minutes to a few hours.

This process sweetens the cauliflower, making them easier to enjoy in their raw state.

Once done soaking, pour into a mesh strainer to drain the water out.

Then place the cauliflower on a clean linen towel and hand-squeeze the excess water from it. Place in a bowl.




The texture of this method will more like a rice pudding with a chewy, toothsome bite.


Steamed Porridge Version:


How to Steam Cauliflower In a Steamer Basket

Bring an inch of water to a boil in the bottom of a pot into which your steamer basket or insert fits.

Cut or break the cauliflower into similar-sized pieces, so they steam evenly.  Place the florets in the steamer basket, set over the boiling water, cover, and steam until fork tender (3-8 minutes).

Be careful not to overcook because that will increase the bitterness.

To test for doneness, prick the cauliflower with a fork after four or five minutes. The florets should be fork-tender but still somewhat firm.





Assembly:


After preparing the cauliflower, add the coconut milk and stevia, stirring until combined.

Start with 1/4 cup of coconut milk and add more according to the texture that you want.

You can use any sweetener that you want.

You can blend this together in the blender for a creamy texture; it’s completely up to you. That is my preference.




Sprinkle cinnamon and salt on top.

Salt is optional, but it helps to elevate the sweetness and give it that slight balance of flavors.




Garnish with diced strawberries or any other fruit that you may have on hand.

If you are not following AIP, then garnish with; nuts, hemp seeds, raisins, etc. Your imagination is the limit.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



