Raw Raw Cinnamon Almond Butter Cereal
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/raw-cinnamon-almond-butter-cereal/



	Cinnamon Almond Butter Cereal

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

If you know me or at least have read some of my breakfast cereal posts, you will see that I am a sucker for a bowl of crunchy cereal, well actually any cereal.

Especially the kind where you make a nest in the corner of the couch, bundled up in a fuzzy blanket, a bowl tucked under your chin (can’t lose a drop of almond milk) while one spoonful gets shoveled in one right after the other. Yep, this is one of those cereals.

It is crunchy and laced with a hint of banana and a good dose of cinnamonomomomomomomom.  If you don’t have almond pulp on hand, you can use finely ground almonds, but the texture will be a bit denser.  Nothing wrong with dense, of course, and I love experiencing different textures in the beautiful world of raw.

This batch of cereal turned into 225 little squares of goodness.  As you will notice in the list of ingredients, I only used 1/4 cup of maple syrup.

Each little square only has .25 grams of sweetener in it!  Not so bad if you ask me. :)  But you can always add more, or better yet, just drizzle a little extra on top when you dish it up.  Just make sure that the bananas are ripe; that way, they are sweeter and much easier on the good ole’ digestive system.  I hope you give this recipe a try, and be sure to let me know how it goes.

Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups dry cereal (225 squares, I counted)


2 cups packed, moist almond pulp

1 1/4 cup mashed banana, (2 bananas)

3/4 cup raw almond butter

1/2 cup ground flax meal

1/4 cup maple syrup

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


In a large bowl combine the almond pulp, banana, almond butter, flax meal, maple syrup, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt.

Remove all jewels from your hands and dive in.  Mix everything really well.




Spread the batter out onto the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

On an Excalibur machine, I used one tray, spreading the batter from one edge to the other.

Use a spatula to spread it nice and even, dipping it in water every once in a while, so it didn’t stick to the batter.




Score into desired sizes.  I found a ruler in my husband’s tool box drawer that was 18″ long. Perfect for scoring!

Dust with additional cinnamon if you wish.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours.

Flip the tray over onto another that has the mesh sheet only.

Peel the teflex sheet off and return to the dehydrator for another 8 hours or until dry.




Snap apart on the score lines and place them in an airtight container.  Stored on the counter, it will last 2-3 days. Fridge – 1-2 weeks.  Freezer – 1-2 months.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn how to make raw almond butter by clicking (here).

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.











Here it is, dried and crunchified!



I had made this cereal several times.  I always play around with

thicknesses and found that I genuinely enjoy it thick and thin. The

thicker squares have more structure.



NRFDA 

(Nouveau Raw Food Determining Association) conducted a test at 

Nouveau Raw Kitchens, The Soggy Cereal Test.

The subject: Cinnamon Almond Butter Cereal.  

Object: to see how long this raw cereal could stand up to almond milk before getting soggy.  

No animals were harmed in this test.  

The results posted below.



Step 1 ~ Add almond milk.



Step 2 ~ Taste test at 5 minutes…10 minutes…20 minutes…30 minutes…









The lab tech conducting this test ate the whole bowl of the subject matter.

By the time 30 minutes hit.  Still had crunch.  This concludes our test — :) Pats belly.



 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



