Raw Buckwheat Cacao Pops
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/raw-buckwheat-cacao-pops/



	Buckwheat Cacao Pops

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Do you ever miss sneaking in a bowl of your childhood favorite, sugared, cereal?! I know I do from time to time.  As I walk down the cereal aisle at the grocery, I often stop at various cereals that take me back in time. “Time Travel! Isle 2!”

I am not tempted to buy those high sugared cereals, but I won’t deny that they sound good!  Well, for those of you who want to revisit a childhood memory with me, make these Raw Buckwheat Cacao Pops, dish up a big bowl with your favorite nut milk, snuggle up on the couch and turn on the cartoon channel!

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups


1 cup raw buckwheat or sprouted quinoa

1/4 cup raisins

1/4 cup dried banana chips

2 Tbsp raw cacao powder

3-4 Tbsp maple syrup

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Soak the buckwheat for 30+ minutes then, rinse, rinse, and rinse some more.  They create a gelatinous liquid that needs to be washed away.  Buckwheat expands when soaked so don’t be alarmed.

In a mixing bowl, combine the buckwheat, raisins, banana chips, cacao powder, maple syrup, cinnamon, and salt, mix well.  Taste test and adjust if needed.

Spread the mixture onto a teflex sheet and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F)  for 4 – 8 hours.

Partway through the dry time, flip the non-sheet over onto the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and peel back the non-stick sheet.

Dry times will always vary based on climate, humidity, and/or on how full the machine is.




Once the mixture is crisp and crunchy, I simply broke it up into small pieces and placed them in a bowl

Dish yourself up a bowl, add a little nut milk.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is raw cacao powder?

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



FDA (Food Determining Association) conducted a test at Nouveau Raw Kitchens, The Soggy Cereal Test. The subject: Crunchy Peanut Butter and Buckwheat Cereal Squares.   Object: to see how long this raw cereal could stand up to almond milk before getting soggy.   No animals were harmed in this test.   Results posted below.

 

Step 1 ~  Set timer for 10 minutes.



Step 2 ~ Add nut milk.



Step 3 ~  10 minutes in… this bite still had good crunch into it.



Step 4 ~ 20 minutes into the test… pieces are breaking up but the buckwheat

remains crunchy.



I know this is a test, but I am really enjoying this process!



Step 5 ~ 30 minutes into the test and the last bite was a little soft but not soggy.



 This concludes today’s test.  It’s a success!

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



