Morning Burst Porridge (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/morning-burst-porridge/



	Morning Burst Porridge

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I really love it when my mom comes to visit.  One of the many reasons is that I get to make all sorts of new breakfast recipes for her!  I even had her name this recipe.

I just love porridge recipes because they make my tummy feel all warm and cozy.  Porridge is a dish made by boiling ground, crushed, or chopped grain in water and/or milk, often with flavorings.  Amazingly, we can skip the whole cooking process.  Simply mix and let it sit overnight.

Wake up in the morning, wipe the sleep from your eyes and find your way to the kitchen.  There it is…. breakfast.  It’s been ready and waiting for you to get your sleepy head out of bed.

This porridge can be enjoyed at room temp, chilled in the fridge or even warmed in the dehydrator if you have some extra time.  If you don’t own a dehydrator, warm it up in a saucepan, to finger-touch warmth.  I love it cold and warm. It’s just wonderful to have so many options.

This recipe makes quite a hearty and filling serving.  If you can’t eat it all, that’s ok, just place the leftovers in the fridge and enjoy it as a snack later in the day. Or better yet, grab two spoons and share it with your loved one.

One last thought… you could take this porridge to a whole new textural level by throwing in the blender.  Blend until creamy smooth. If you want a creamier or thinner consistency, add a little water, milk, or juice before blending.

Ingredients:

Yields 1-2 servings


1 cup raw almond nut milk

1 ripe banana, mashed

1/3 cup gluten-free, rolled oats

2 Tbsp chia seeds

2 Tbsp walnuts, chopped

2 Tbsp liquid sweetener

1 Tbsp carob or cacao powder

1/4 tsp vanilla extract

dash of sea salt

Topping ideas; Dried cranberries, buckwheat, banana slices, shredded coconut


Preparation:


This is going to be easy.  Add all ingredients to a small mixing bowl and mix well.

If you have nut allergies, just feel free to omit the walnuts.

Please make sure that your banana is nice and ripe, it will lend more sweetness, and it will be easier on your digestive system.

I used raw carob powder because I am finding myself to be a bit sensitive to cacao.  If you use cacao instead be prepared to add in some sweetener such as agave or honey.  Raw cacao is very bitter.




Place in the fridge for at least 1 hour or even overnight.

Garnish and enjoy!




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Click (here) for my thoughts on raw agave nectar.

To learn more about Yacon syrup by clicking (here).

What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



