Cinnamon Apple Raisin Buckwheat Crisps (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/cinnamon-apple-raisin-buckwheat-crisps/



	Cinnamon Apple Raisin Buckwheat Crisps

													    
    


				Cinnamon Apple Raisin Buckwheat Crisps
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I receive emails on a regular basis from readers who ask for advice on what raw food staples would be quick and easy.  Two words that we all love when it comes to food prep, huh?  So, presenting on the center stage… a delicious cereal that will keep for several weeks in the pantry or for months in the freezer.

The beauty of this cereal is that it can be enjoyed with your favorite nut milk, eaten dry as a snack, crumbled over a bowl of raw ice cream or yogurt, use as a topping on your favorite raw pie, or tossed together with nuts and dried fruits for a healthy trail mix.

Whenever I serve a bowl of cereal, I can’t help but dress it up a little by adding fresh fruit. There is something about the crunch of the cereal against the soft sweetness of the fruit that sends my taste buds on holiday.

If you have all of the ingredients on hand, but you don’t have any apples rolling around, you could substitute with peaches, pears, strawberries, bananas… just about any fruit. For the complete recipe, I used three tablespoons of almond butter, if you wish to make this recipe nut-free you can use raw coconut butter or sunflower seed butter.

I used raisins as my main sweetener for this cereal.   Each one of these little shriveled up nuggets is a rich and concentrated natural source of energy, vitamins, electrolytes, and minerals.  And they contain the heart-healthy electrolyte potassium and dietary fiber.  And if derived from red/purple grapes, they are very high in anthocyanins, another class of polyphenolic anti-oxidants.   Anthocyanins have been found to have anti-allergic, anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial and anti-cancer activities.  (source)  If you don’t have raisins or wish to use a different dried fruit, look to Medjool dates, dried figs or even dried apricots if you really want to dance to a new flavor note.

Most of all, I just want you to feel encouraged, that you too, can make healthy and delicious cereals, right in your very own kitchen.   I am beside you in spirit and if you need a little help along the way, just leave a comment below, and I will help you the best I can.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 8 cups

Cereal base:


2 cups raw buckwheat, soaked 30+ minutes

2 large apples, cored & roughly chopped

1 cup raisins

3 Tbsp raw coconut nectar

3 Tbsp almond butter

1- 2 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Stir-in:


1 cup raisins


 Preparation:


After soaking the buckwheat, rinse until the water runs clear and doesn’t feel so vicious.

Leave to sit in the colander to drain while you put the other ingredients together.




In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the apples (keep the skin on or take off)  1 cup of raisins, raw coconut nectar, almond butter, cinnamon, and salt.  Process until it creates a smooth texture.

Start with 1 Tbsp of cinnamon and taste test after blending, add more if you wish. I used the full 2 Tbsp, but I LOVE cinnamon.

If using organic apples, I keep the skin on for added nutrients. Otherwise, remove the skins.

You can use any liquid sweetener in place of the raw coconut nectar.




Hand mix in buckwheat and the other cup of raisins.

Divide the mixture and spread it out on two dehydrator trays fitted with the teflex sheet.

If you don’t have those, use parchment paper (but not wax paper, it will stick).

Don’t worry about the edges being perfect.

This cereal will be broken into small bits after it is dry. You can score the cereal into small squares throughout the dry time if you wish.




Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce to 115 degrees (F), and continue drying for about 8-10 hours.

The dry time will vary depending on your machine, how full it is, and the humidity in the ambient air.




Once dry and cooled to room temperature, break into small cereal-sized pieces and store them in an airtight container, and place them in the pantry or freezer.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



