Cookie Dough Oat Porridge - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/cookie-dough-oat-porridge/



	Cookie Dough Oat Porridge

													    
    


				

– RAW / VEGAN / GLUTEN-FREE –

Well, this was sort of like the Last Supper…alas it is Mom’s last breakfast here at the Nouveau Raw Inn.  Soon she will be back home in Alaska, and I miss her already.

This is a very rich porridge, so rich in fact that Mom wasn’t able to eat it all in one sitting, unlike the other ones that I have made for her over the past week.

I love the fact that it has nutritional yeast in it, I am a huge fan of the stuff, and it gives this porridge a very unique flavor.  Cookie Dough Oat Porridge almost seems like a dessert!  You could always use different nut butters if you wanted to.  Enjoy your morning!

Ingredients:


1/2 cup raw, gluten-free oats

1 cup nut milk (divided into 1/2 cup measurements)

1 Tbsp chia seeds

1 Tbsp nutritional yeast ( I love the Gold Star brand )

1 Tbsp raw peanut butter

2 Tbsp chocolate chips

1 packet stevia or a sweetener of your choice

1 tsp vanilla

pinch Himalayan pink salt

pinch ground Ceylon cinnamon


Preparation:


Blend 1/2 cup of the nut milk with the oats and chia seeds & refrigerate overnight or for at least 1 hour to thicken.

If you make it the night before,  go ahead and just keep it in the blender container to cut down on dishes.




Come morning take the blender and add the remaining 1/2 cup milk, stevia, vanilla, salt, and cinnamon. Blend on high.

Turn blender speed to low and add nutritional yeast and 1 Tbsp chocolate chips.

You don’t want the chocolate chips to get completely obliterated.




Top with remaining chocolate and peanut butter.  I sprinkled a few extra oats on top as well.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



