Breakfast Pizza with Granola Crust (raw, vegan, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/breakfast-pizza-granola-crust-raw-nut-free-vegan/



	Breakfast Pizza with Granola Crust

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

When we get together with friends or family we tend to think of sharing lunch or dinners with them… not many people think of breakfast. When I sit and gaze at the photos that I took of this breakfast pizza, it immediately makes me think of Sunday morning brunch.  And when it comes to making food for such an occasion, there really isn’t a need for going overboard.

This breakfast pizza is sophisticated, elegant, rustic, light, fresh, filling and nutritious.  Who thought you could get all of that out of a pizza?!

The granola crust can be made several days in advance.  It does require dehydration, but keep in mind, you don’t want to dry it to where it is hard and crunchy.  This is meant to be enjoyed on a plate with a fork, so keep it on the softer side.

As far as the topping goes, you can use coconut cream, any non-dairy raw yogurt, or even a raw vegan, spreadable cheese.   And the toppings… goodness, there really isn’t any end as to the possibilities.  Keep it fresh and simple.  And don’t afraid to add a savory herb into the mix.  Fresh minced basil, rosemary, and mint are just a few ideas.

If you have children or have children visiting, divide the granola batter into small, individual size pizza portions.  Build a buffet of an assortment of fresh fruits, yogurts or spreadable cheeses, nuts, and seeds… letting everyone build their our breakfast pizza. What do you think of this recipe? I would love to hear from you.  Have a blessed day, amie sue

Ingredients:

Granola:



Yields 11″ circular pizza


2 cups buckwheat groats, soaked

1 cup Medjool date paste

1/2 cup dried cranberries

5 large Medjool dates, diced

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 Himalayan pink salt


Coconut cream:


1 cup young Thai coconut cream


Topping:


Pomegranate seeds

Red grapes

Sprinkle with shredded coconut


Preparation:

Crust:


Click on the link above to learn how to soak buckwheat.

After soaking the buckwheat, drain and discard the soak water, rinsing them under running water until you don’t detect any more mucilage (slime) draining from them.  This important as it will affect the taste.

You can take the buckwheat to the next nutritional level by sprouting them before continuing with the recipe.  This will take an extra day or two.




In a large mixing bowl combine the buckwheat, date paste, cranberries, dates, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt.

Pour the mixture onto a non-stick dehydrator sheet and create an 11″ circle pizza crust.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, flip the crust over onto the mesh sheet and continue to dry at 115 degrees (F) for 8-10 hours.  Dry it long enough to hold together, but not till crispy.

Once done and cooled, slide onto a serving plate.



 Coconut cream/ yogurt / or spreadable cheese:

Raw Coconut Yogurt

Raw Greek Nogurt

Raw Coconut Pudding

Raw Rosemary and Cranberry “Cream Cheese” Spread

Raw Mascarpone Cheese


Assembly:


Make one of the above-suggested recipes and spread a thick layer over the crust, leaving 1/2″ clear around the edges.

Arrange fruit on top, making sure to slice it into bite-size pieces if needed.

Sprinkle fresh herbs on top and serve!


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



