Abso-FIG-ing-lutely Muesli Cereal
https://nouveauraw.com/breakfast/abso-fig-ing-lutely-muesli-cereal/



	Abso-FIG-ing-lutely Muesli Cereal

													    
    


				
– raw, vegan, gluten-free –

Muesli is one of those breakfast cereals that turns out to be perfect for both summer and winter.   In the summer serve it with a splash of cold non-dairy milk, eating it as you would a regular bowl of cereal.

And in the winter, try soaking the muesli overnight in milk, yogurt, or other softeners (perhaps juice) of your choice. Just add equal parts of muesli and liquid to a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.

This can turn the muesli into a cold porridge type mixture that many people really enjoy. Since I don’t use dairy milk, which would spoil if left out overnight… I can leave my muesli to soak on the counter, making it room-temp… not as chilly on the tummy.

Now, if you are in need of a warm breakfast, you could put the muesli in a dehydrator set at 145 degrees (F), warming it for about 30 minutes.  Or you can heat it on the stove-top in a small saucepan.  Just make sure you don’t get it too hot if you want to keep it “raw.”

To mix up your muesli experience with a different texture or flavor, try unsweetened applesauce, it makes for a great alternative. Oh, another great way to enjoy it by adding your favorite non-dairy yogurt. You not only get the probiotic benefits, but you will also experience a different flavor and texture. As you can see, there are almost endless possibilities. After it’s all said and done, it is a breakfast that can give you loads of energy without feeling sluggish or overly full.

This type of breakfast is very filling due to the healthy fats and fiber.  So watch your serving size (should only be 1/3- 1/2 cup max).  I treat this particular recipe as a treat.  If you need to take your breakfast on the go, place a 1/3 cup of cereal in 4 oz mason jar, or if you have a larger appetite or like to use more milk, use the short 8 oz jar.  Twist the lid on the tight and throw it in your purse or man-bag. :) I hope you enjoy this recipe. amie sue



Ingredients:

Yields roughly 9 cups


Dry Ingredients:

8 cups raw, gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

3 cups raw mixed nuts, rough chopped, soaked

3/4 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1/2 cup raw sesame seeds, soaked

2 cups chopped dried figs

1 cup shredded coconut

1 cup chopped dried natural pineapple

1 cup raisins

3/4 cup Medjool dates, pitted

3/4 cup water

1/4 cup raw honey or liquid sweetener

1/4 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

2 Tbsp vanilla extract

1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp ground nutmeg

1 tsp ground cloves

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Regarding oats.

The import step with oats is to soak them overnight to remove the phytic acid that impairs digestion.   Please see the link above on this step.

After the soaking process be sure to rinse them until the water runs clear.

Squeeze out all the excess water.




Drain and rinse the mixed chopped nuts, sunflower seeds, and sesame seeds, placing them in a large bowl.

Add the dried figs, coconut, pineapple, and raisins. Toss together.

In a food processor fitted with the “S” blade, combine the dates, water, sweetener, coconut oil, vanilla, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and salt.

If the figs and pineapple are hard and dry, re-hydrate them in enough warm water to cover. Soak for roughly 15 minutes to soften them.  Drain the soak water when ready to use them.

I find dried pineapple rings difficult to cut, so I use kitchen scissors which makes things go lickety-split.




Pour the wet mixture over the dry mixture, mixing until everything is well coated.

Spread the batter on the teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator.

If you don’t have those you can use parchment paper, but don’t use wax paper because the granola will stick to it.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for about 1 hour, reduce heat to 115 degrees (F) for about 4 hours and then flip the batter over onto the mesh screens that comes with the dehydrator, peeling off the non-stick sheet.

Continue drying for about 16-24 hours or until desired dryness is reached.

The dry time will always vary, based on your climate, humidity, the make/model of your dehydrator, and how full it is.




Once it is completely cool, it should crisp up even more.  At this time, in small batches, place the dried cereal in a food processor and pulse just enough times to break it down into a small crumble.

Store in a glass, sealed container for 2-3 weeks on the counter, or even longer in the freezer.


The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™


To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Click (here) for my thoughts on raw agave nectar.

Raw honey isn’t vegan but I still use now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



