Raspberry Chocolate Tootsie Chews (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/candy/raspberry-chocolate-tootsie-chews/



	Raspberry Chocolate Tootsie Chews

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I have developed a handful of these Tootsie Chew candies and I have to say that this one, next to the Oldfather “Licorice” Chews…is my favorite.  Savor the perfect combination of delectably luscious raspberry alongside intense dark chocolate… all in one bite.

These candies have a chewy texture that can withstand room temperature with ease.  If you think that the ambient air will go over 70 degrees (F), I might suggest tucking them into the fridge for longer shelf life.   Since I used raspberry powder, rather than the real fruit it will have a longer expiration date.  I can’t really tell you how long that it is without testing… but I have a strong feeling that they will be devoured sooner than you might intend. :)

Helpful tips when creating these candies is to use “dry” date paste.  I know that sounds a bit confusing so let me explain.  When creating the dates paste, use the least amount of water needed when getting it to that creamy smooth texture.  I provided a link below on how I make my date paste, please review it.

I mentioned above that we want the date paste creamy smooth.  There is a reason… if the date paste has bits of chunks in it, the batter will clog up the piping tip when making the candy.

I worked hard to create these special candies for my grandfather who LOVES candy but can’t eat anything hard or crunchy. I will provide some different companies that sell organic strawberry powder.  Z Naturals and Just Tomatoes.  There may be others but this will get you started. I feel that it is important to use organic when it comes to berries, regardless of what form they come in.  These powders are expensive, but stop and think of how many berries it took to create that volume of powder!

To create sweet little gift bags I used Wilton’s clear bags.  They come with a cardboard disc that you place in the base of the bag to give it some structure.  I packaged roughly 20 individually wrapped candies per bag. And then tied it off with some brown twine.

I hope you enjoy this fun and simple recipe. blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 82 (2” piece) candies

Raspberry batter:


2 cups date paste

1/2 cup raspberry powder

1/4 cup beet juice

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


 Chocolate batter:


2 cups date paste

1/2 cup + 3 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt




Preparation:

Raspberry batter:


Remove the pits from the dates as you put them in the measuring cup.

Be sure to inspect each date as you tear it in half to remove the pit.  Mold and insect eggs can infect dried dates.  I don’t mean to gross you out,  you just need to be made aware of this.




Place the date paste, raspberry powder, beet juice, and salt in the food processor fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until it turns into a creamy paste.


Chocolate batter:


Place the date paste, cacao powder, and salt in the food processor fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until it turns into a creamy paste.


Fill the piping bag:


You will need 2 piping bags. Follow the steps for each bag, except no piping tip will be added to the bag.  The picture below shows you better what I did.

For piping tools that I use, click (here).  I used the piping tip Ateco #808.

While holding the bag with one hand, fold down the top with the other hand to form a cuff over your hand.

Fill the bag 1/2 full.  If you overfill the bag, the excess batter may squeeze out the wrong end not to mention that you will have less control of the bag when piping.

Close the bag by unfolding the cuff and twisting the bag closed. This forces the batter down into the bag.

“Burping” the bag: Make sure you release any air trapped in the bag by squeezing some of the batter out of the tip into the bowl. This is called “burping” the bag.

If you don’t remove the air bubbles they will come out while you are piping your straight line and cause blurps and breaks.  Best to create a seamless line.





Piping:


Hold the two bags side by side and gently twist the tops of the bag as one.

Place the cut open bottom tips in the one piping #808 tip.  You will hold this in place while you use your other hand to squeeze the batter out.  Sounds tricky but once you get started you will get the hang of it.

Hold the piping bag tip about 1/4″ above the non-stick sheet, at a 22.5-degree angle, and slowly pipe the batter from one edge of the dehydrator tray to the other.

Keep constant pressure on the piping bag as you squeeze out the paste.  This will ensure an even thickness of the line.

After each completed line, stop and retwist the piping bag, working all paste towards the tip.  This will eliminate air bubbles in the bag and give you a solid grip.

Remember: It doesn’t have to be perfect. Just have fun and if you make a mistake, scoop it up, place back in the bag and do it again.


Dehydrate & store:


Place the tray in the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hours.

Once cooled, cut into 2” lengths and wrap in squares of wax paper.

I keep mine stored in the fridge for freshness but they can be left out at room temp.

These candy chews won’t be hard or crunchy.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).


Substitutions:

One of the greatest joys when creating raw food recipes is experimenting with different ingredients… a practice that I highly encourage.  Daily I get questions regarding substitutions.  Of course, we all might have different dietary needs and tastes which could necessitate altering a recipe.    I love to share with you what I create for myself, my husband, friends, and family.  I spend a lot of time selecting the right ingredients with a particular goal in mind, looking to build a certain flavor and texture.



So as you experiment with substitutions, remember they are what they sound like, they are substitutes for the preferred item.  Generally, they are not going to behave, taste, or have the same texture as the suggested ingredient.   Some may work, and others may not and I can’t promise what the results will be unless I’ve tried them myself.   So have fun, don’t be afraid,  and remember, substituting is how I discovered many of my unique dishes.






Can you see the color differences between the raspberry and
chocolate flavors?  Hard to see but it’s there. :)


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



