Chocolate Orange Tootsie Chews (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/candy/chocolate-orange-tootsie-chews/



	Chocolate Orange Tootsie Chews

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I always knew that the two flavorS, chocolate, and orange paired well…. but I still have to ask…. “Who’d have thought that dark chocolate and orange would make such a perfect match?!”

Do you remember those chocolate orange cream candies that you would find in a box of assorted chocolate?  This is what these Chocolate Orange Tootsie Chews taste like.  There isn’t an orange creamed center, surrounded by chocolate. Instead, it is all intertwined together.  Each candy chew is then nestled in its own wrapper, giving you an irresistible sweet anytime!

To create that amazing, mouth-watering orange flavor, I used orange essential oil by Living Young.  These oils are highly concentrated, powerful, and add intense flavor and aroma to any recipe that you add them too.

They are about three to four times stronger than alcohol-based extract flavorings.  If you don’t have a good quality essential oil, you can use an orange extract/flavoring by using one teaspoon in place of a quarter teaspoon of essential oil.  Start small and work up the amount of orange flavor that you want.

A helpful tip when creating these candies is to use “dry” date paste.  I know that sounds a bit confusing so let me explain.  When creating the date paste, use the least amount of water needed when getting it to that creamy smooth texture.  I provided a link below on how I make my date paste, please review it.  I mentioned above that we want the date paste creamy smooth.  There is a reason… if the date paste has bits of chunks in it, the batter will clog up the piping tip when making the candy.

Below, I shared some gift-giving ideas. Another great gift idea is to fill a basket with homemade candies and a container of fresh almond milk.  Have fun! blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 50 (2” candies)


3 cup date paste

3/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

11 drops orange essential oil



Preparation:

Create the candy batter:


Remove the pits from the dates as you put them in the measuring cup.

Be sure to inspect each date as you tear it in half to remove the pit.  Mold and insect eggs can infect dried dates.  I don’t mean to gross you out,  you just need to be made aware of this.




Place the date paste, cacao powder, salt, and essential oil in the food processor fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until it turns into a creamy paste.

Note: orange essential oil and orange flavoring are two different things. I recommend using the oil for the health benefits but if you must use orange flavoring, start with 1/2 tsp and taste test.  You will be the judge on how much is needed.

Tip: Never add the oil or flavorings above the food processor.  Place in a spoon, then put in the food processor.  If you over-pour, you won’t be able to undo the mistake.





Fill the piping bag:


It is best to use either a canvas or a silicone piping bag.  I used the piping tip Ateco #808.

While holding the bag with one hand, fold down the top with the other hand to form a cuff over your hand.

Fill the bag 1/2 full.  If you overfill the bag, the excess batter may squeeze out the wrong end not to mention that you will have less control of the bag when piping.

Close the bag by unfolding the cuff and twisting the bag closed. This forces the batter down into the bag.

“Burping” the bag: Make sure you release any air trapped in the bag by squeezing some of the batter out of the tip into the bowl. This is called “burping” the bag.

If you don’t remove the air bubbles, they will come out while you are piping your straight line and cause blurps and breaks.  Best to create a seamless line.





Piping:


Hold the piping bag tip about 1/4″ above the non-stick sheet, at a 22.5-degree angle, and slowly pipe the batter from one edge of the dehydrator tray to the other.

Keep constant pressure on the piping bag as you squeeze out the paste.  This will ensure an even thickness of the line.

After each completed line, stop and retwist the piping bag, working all paste towards the tip.  This will eliminate air bubbles in the bag and give you a solid grip.

Remember: It doesn’t have to be perfect. Just have fun and if you make a mistake, scoop it up, place back in the bag and do it again.


Dehydrate & store:


Place the tray in the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hours.

Once cooled, cut into 2” lengths and wrap in squares of wax paper.

I keep mine stored in the fridge for freshness, but they can be left out at room temp.

These candy chews won’t be hard or crunchy.




Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


Substitutions:

One of the greatest joys when creating raw food recipes is experimenting with different ingredients… a practice that I highly encourage.  Daily I get questions regarding substitutions.  Of course, we all might have different dietary needs and tastes which could necessitate altering a recipe.    I love to share with you what I create for myself, my husband, friends, and family.  I spend a lot of time selecting the right ingredients with a particular goal in mind, looking to build a certain flavor and texture.



So as you experiment with substitutions, remember they are what they sound like, they are substitutes for the preferred item.  Generally, they are not going to behave, taste, or have the same texture as the suggested ingredient.   Some may work, and others may not, and I can’t promise what the results will be unless I’ve tried them myself.   So have fun, don’t be afraid,  and remember, substituting is how I discovered many of my unique dishes.




A great gift idea: Fill a basket with homemade candies and
a container of fresh almond milk.  Looking for unique milk
containers?  Click (here) for ideas.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



