Raspberry Tootsie Chews (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/candy/raspberry-tootsie-chews/



	Raspberry Tootsie Chews

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

As a child growing up, did you ever find yourself bored, no one to play with, too cold (or hot) to go outside, no siblings to pester… you know… when you are SO bored that “creative “things come to mind?! Yea, yea creative things, that’s the ticket.

Like, ummm, let’s say…. how many raspberries does it take to fill your mouth?! Ever play that game? As an only child growing up, this was how I self-entertained.  And I have to say that these Raspberry Tootsie Chews tastes as sweet as my success did on those bored-out-of-mind-I-can-shove-just-one-more-raspberry-in-my-mouth…. games.  Please tell me that I am not alone on this? hehe

These raspberry chews have a wonderful balance between sweet and tangy… just enough tang to make the back of your cheeks squirt.  They have a wonderful chewiness to them and are worthy of being thrown into your purse for a midday snack.

A helpful tip when creating these candies is to use “dry” date paste.  I know that sounds a bit confusing so let me explain.  When creating the date paste, use the least amount of water needed when getting it to that creamy smooth texture.  I provided a link below on how I make my date paste, please review it.

I mentioned above that we want the date paste creamy smooth. There is a reason… if the date paste has bits of chunks in it, the batter will clog up the piping tip when making the candy.

One other quick matter that I wanted to point out is about wrapping the candy in wax paper.  If you are used to dealing with wax paper you will know that the more you handle it, the more marked up the paper gets.  So, with that being said, once the candies are wrapped, don’t manhandle them too much or they will get white slashes all over them. I hope that makes sense.

Regardless of the above issue, wax paper is perfect for wrapping these candies in. It has a thin coating of wax on each side, making it nonstick and moisture-resistant; it is a good, less-expensive substitute for parchment paper.   If you are looking for a cute way to store them or to give them as gifts use mason jars.  Not only do they look great, but they are reusable.  I love finding interesting lids for them just to add a little pizzazz to them.

I worked hard to create these special candies for my grandfather who LOVES candy but can’t eat anything hard or crunchy. I will provide some different companies that sell organic strawberry powder. Z Naturals and Just Tomatoes.  There may be others but this will get you started.  I feel that it is important to use organic when it comes to berries, regardless of what form they come in.  These powders are expensive, but stop and think of how many berries it took to create that volume of powder!

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 50 (2” candies) or 14 candy canes (size depending)


2 cups date paste

1/2 cup raspberry powder

1/4 cup beet juice

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt




Preparation:

Create the candy batter:


Remove the pits from the dates as you put them in the measuring cup.

Be sure to inspect each date as you tear it in half to remove the pit.  Mold and insect eggs can infect dried dates.  I don’t mean to gross you out,  you just need to be made aware of this.




Place the date paste, raspberry powder, beet juice, and salt in the food processor fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until it turns into a creamy paste.


Fill the piping bag:


It is best to use either a canvas or a silicone piping bag.  I used the piping tip Ateco #808.

While holding the bag with one hand, fold down the top with the other hand to form a cuff over your hand.

Fill the bag 1/2 full.  If you overfill the bag, the excess batter may squeeze out the wrong end not to mention that you will have less control of the bag when piping.

Close the bag by unfolding the cuff and twisting the bag closed. This forces the batter down into the bag.

“Burping” the bag: Make sure you release any air trapped in the bag by squeezing some of the batter out of the tip into the bowl. This is called “burping” the bag.

If you don’t remove the air bubbles they will come out while you are piping your straight line and cause blurps and breaks.  Best to create a seamless line.





Piping:


Click (here) to view some photos of how I piped these.

Hold the piping bag tip about 1/4″ above the non-stick sheet, at a 22.5-degree angle, and slowly pipe the batter from one edge of the dehydrator tray to the other.  Don’t hold it too high or you will create a squiggly line.

Keep constant pressure on the piping bag as you squeeze out the paste.  This will ensure an even thickness of the line.

After each completed line, stop and retwist the piping bag, working all paste towards the tip.  This will eliminate air bubbles in the bag and give you a solid grip.

Remember: It doesn’t have to be perfect. Just have fun and if you make a mistake, scoop it up, place back in the bag and do it again.


Dehydrate & store:


Place the tray in the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hours.

Once cooled, cut into 2” lengths and wrap in squares of wax paper.

I keep mine stored in the fridge for freshness but they can be left out at room temp.

These candy chews won’t be hard or crunchy.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).


Substitutions:

One of the greatest joys when creating raw food recipes is experimenting with different ingredients… a practice that I highly encourage.  Daily I get questions regarding substitutions.  Of course, we all might have different dietary needs and tastes which could necessitate altering a recipe.    I love to share with you what I create for myself, my husband, friends, and family.  I spend a lot of time selecting the right ingredients with a particular goal in mind, looking to build a certain flavor and texture.



So as you experiment with substitutions, remember they are what they sound like, they are substitutes for the preferred item.  Generally, they are not going to behave, taste, or have the same texture as the suggested ingredient.   Some may work, and others may not and I can’t promise what the results will be unless I’ve tried them myself.   So have fun, don’t be afraid,  and remember, substituting is how I discovered many of my unique dishes.



I really struggled to capture their color and texture in pictures.
This was the best I could do.  Odd looking close up. :)




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



