Blazing Blueberry Tootsie Chews (raw, vegan, nut, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/candy/blazing-blueberry-tootsie-chews/



	Blazing Blueberry Tootsie Chews

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, nut, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I named this candy Blazing Blueberry because it blazes through your mouth with blueberry flavor. :) How do you like that for straight to the point simplicity?! I couldn’t have been more thrilled with the outcome.

The one thing that really surprised me was the color… the candies turned out BLACK. Blacker than the ace of spades. Why couldn’t I get that color on my Black “Licorice” candies? lol The color is intense and stunning all rolled into one little blazing blueberry tootsie chew.

To create an intense flavor and firm texture, I used organic blueberry powder.  I haven’t tested using fresh berries and if you do give it a try,  please keep me posted on how it goes.  The flavor won’t be as intense and it will add more liquid to the overall batter, so you will need to balance all of that.

You can purchase freeze-dried blueberries from Trader Joe’s, Whole Foods, or perhaps a health food store near you. Then just grind them up in a coffee grinder or equivalent.  One other option is ordering blueberry flavoring through Medicine Flower.  Many people love their extracts.  If you test this out, you might need to play around with the texture of the batter.  If it is too wet, add 1/2 cup of almond flour.  A wet batter will make for limp and sticky candies.

A helpful tip when creating these candies is to use “dry” date paste.  I know that sounds a bit confusing so let me explain.  When creating the date paste, use the least amount of water needed when getting it to that creamy smooth texture.  I provided a link below on how I make my date paste, please review it.  I hope you enjoy these candies as much as my family has.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 48 (2” candies)


2 cups date paste

3/4 cup blueberry powder, see above

1/4 cup beet juice

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Create the candy batter:


Remove the pits from the dates as you put them in the measuring cup.

Be sure to inspect each date as you tear it in half to remove the pit.  Mold and insect eggs can infect dried dates.  I don’t mean to gross you out,  you just need to be made aware of this.




Place the date paste, blueberry powder, beet juice, and salt in the food processor fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until it turns into a creamy paste.


Fill the piping bag:


For piping bags, I like to use a canvas or silicone bag since they are stronger, such as (this) one. I used the piping tip Ateco #808.

While holding the bag with one hand, fold down the top with the other hand to form a cuff over your hand.

Fill the bag 1/2 full.  If you overfill the bag, the excess batter may squeeze out the wrong end not to mention that you will have less control of the bag when piping.

Close the bag by unfolding the cuff and twisting the bag closed. This forces the batter down into the bag.

“Burping” the bag: Make sure you release any air trapped in the bag by squeezing some of the batter out of the tip into the bowl. This is called “burping” the bag.

If you don’t remove the air bubbles they will come out while you are piping your straight line and cause blurps and breaks.  Best to create a seamless line.





Piping:


Hold the piping bag tip about 1/4″ above the non-stick sheet, at about a 22-degree angle (half of a 45 ), and slowly pipe the batter from one edge of the dehydrator tray to the other.

Keep constant pressure on the piping bag as you squeeze out the paste.  This will ensure an even thickness of the line.

After each completed line, stop and retwist the piping bag, working all paste towards the tip.  This will eliminate air bubbles in the bag and give you a solid grip.

Remember: It doesn’t have to be perfect. Just have fun and if you make a mistake, scoop it up, place back in the bag and do it again.


Dehydrate & store:


Place the tray in the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hours.

Once cooled, cut into 2” lengths and wrap in squares of wax paper.

I keep mine stored in the fridge for freshness but they can be left out at room temp.

These candy chews won’t be hard or crunchy.




Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.













Packaging idea for gift giving.  I purchased some jars
that were smooth on the glass surface so my label
would lay flat. Twelve candies fit perfectly.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



