Pomegranate Lemon Cheesecake (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/pomegranate-lemon-cheesecake/



	Pomegranate Lemon Cheesecake

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The best way to enjoy pomegranate juice is just to drink it straight up… but if you want to make a velvety smooth, beautifully colored, delicious, nutritious cheesecake, then you might want to save a little to make this recipe.

Every Bite Counts

With each bite, you will be taking in a spoonfuls worth of vitamin A, C and E, folic acid, and antioxidants. Pomegranates are known for heart health as they help to support effective and healthy blood circulation.  (1)

Since cashews are the base of this recipe, it’s important to understand that they have more to offer than just healthy fats. They aid in the formation of red blood cells and encourage a better immune system.  But back to the fats found in cashews… they bring in monounsaturated fats and low amounts of polyunsaturated fats with no harmful cholesterol.

Raw cheesecakes are rich in flavor as well as in nutrients… raw cheesecakes are a dessert and should be treated as such. Too much of anything is never a healthy thing.  But when we want dessert, you now have the ability to choose wisely.

Much to my surprise, the cheesecake coloring came out to be more on the lavender side of the color wheel. The seeds were so vibrant and red…  I just expected a more vibrant color. I added a 1/4 of a cup of beet juice to brighten up the color as well as adding yet more nutrients.

Well, it’s time to get busy in the kitchen. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please be sure to comment below. I always love hearing from you. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Makes 9″ Springform pan



Crust Ingredients:


2 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

5 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3/4 cup packed Medjool dates, pitted

1 tsp liquid vanilla


Filling Ingredients:


3 cups cashews, soaked

3/4 cup maple syrup

3/4 cup fresh pomegranate juice

1/2 cup fresh lemon juice

1/4 cup beet juice

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup coconut oil, melted

2 Tbsp lecithin, ground


Preparation:

Crust:

Assemble a Springform pan with the bottom facing up, the opposite way from how it comes assembled.

This will help you when removing the cheesecake from the pan, not having to fight with the lip.

Wrap the base with plastic wrap.  This will make it easier to remove the pie when done… unless you plan on serving the cake on the bottom of the pan.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse the almonds, cacao powder, and salt, processing the almonds into small pieces.

Be careful that you don’t over-process the nuts and head towards making a nut butter.  Nothing wrong with that… just not our goal at the moment.




Add the dates and vanilla. Process until the batter sticks together.

Depending on your machine, you may need to stop the unit and scrape the sides down during this process.

Test the batter by pinching it between your fingers.  If it holds, it is ready.




Distribute the crust evenly on the bottom of the pan, using even and gentle pressure.  If you press too hard, it might really stick badly to the base of the pan, making it hard to remove slices.

You can either just make the crust on the bottom of the pan, or you can also bring it up the sides.  It is up to you.




Set aside while you make the cheesecake batter.


Cheesecake filling:



Filling:



Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.  Place in a high-speed blender.

In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, sweetener, lemon juice, pomegranate and beet juice, vanilla, and salt until smooth.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.

You can use a different liquid sweetener if you are not comfortable with agave.  Just be aware of the different flavors and colors that the sweetener might impart in the cake.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.  The batter will start to thicken.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Pour the filling on top of the crust and gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Chill in the freezer for 4-6 hours and then in the fridge for 12 hours.

Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 3-5 days or up to 3 months in the freezer.  Be sure that they are well sealed to avoid fridge odors.


Optional decorating:


I created my white cake frosting recipe, and while it was pourable, I poured the frosting over the cheesecake letting it spill over the edges.

If you wish to do this, prop the frozen cheesecake on a jar with a large plate underneath to catch the overflow.




Place the cheesecake back into the freezer to let the frosting firm up.

I then mashed some fresh raspberries and placed them on top, leaving 1/4″ from the edge clean.  Sprinkle pomegranate seeds on top and add some mint leaves.

Enjoy!



		
		
			
				
			
				
				Set a jar on a plate that is larger than the pie.
				
			
				
			
				
				Place the frozen cheesecake on the jar.
				

			
				
			
				
				Pour the frosting over the cake, letting it drip over the edges.
				
			
				
			
				
				Gently smooth it out but try not to disturb it too much. Freeze then decorate. 
				

			
				
			
			
				
			

		



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



