Cultured Mocha Cheesecake (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/cultured-mocha-cheesecake/



	Cultured Mocha Cheesecake

													    
    


				

I have never been a straight-up coffee drinker, but I do love all things coffee-flavored.  And the aroma of coffee… oh man… I could almost brew a pot of coffee daily just so I could smell it.  Take a quick moment and check out this video.  It made me giggle.  Anyway, sorry about that, I got sidetracked.

This particular cheesecake is infused with probiotics and prebiotic powders, making it a gut-healthy dessert, quite different from the typical gut-bomb treats.  Let me share a little bit as to why I added them.

Probiotics

Broken down, the word probiotic means “for life” or “promoting life.”  Probiotics hold the key not just for better health, a stronger immune system, and help to heal digestive issues…they are great at detoxing the body by controlling the bad bacteria in our gut.

Prebio Plus

I am not new to using probiotics in my recipes, but I recently started adding prebiotics.  “By adding a prebiotic (which is food for your bacteria,) it will make the good bacteria grow like crazy and supercharge your probiotics. They are just as important as probiotics, and you should use them together. Prebiotics naturally reside in all kinds of fruits, vegetables, and some nuts & other foods. However, we found some of the strongest sources of prebiotics and placed them in an easy to use powder form.

Without prebiotics, your good bacteria could never grow like it’s supposed to. Eating cultured probiotic foods adds colonies of bacteria to your gut. Adding prebiotics to your diet makes these colonies grow and grow, crowds out pathogens, and helps to reestablish the balance of good bacteria in strong numbers.  Essentially, prebiotics serves as fertilizer for the bacteria in your colon. This can help strengthen your immune system to resist infections and viruses. It also helps to remove toxins and a host of other things that your bacteria is designed to do. But if you don’t have the healthy strains of good bacteria from cultured foods, as well as the prebiotics to make them grow, your gut flora can’t change into what it needs to be.” (1)

The culturing step and the adding of prebiotic powder are completely optional, but I highly recommend them.  It’s time to take our foods to another level of healing! I hope you enjoy this recipe.  Please leave a comment below. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 7″-9″ Springform pan

Crust:


1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup dried shredded coconut

2 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup maple syrup

2 tsp vanilla extract


Culture:


2 cups raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 3/4 cups thick coconut milk (fresh or canned)

1 tsp probiotic powder

2 scoops prebiotic powder


Base:


1/2 cup coconut oil

2 Tbsp raw cacao powder

2 Tbsp organic instant coffee

2 Tbsp maple syrup

1 Tbsp fresh Meyer lemon juice

1/2 tsp liquid NuNaturals stevia

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Topping (optional):


Chocolate Ganache recipe


Preparation:

Crust

Assemble a Springform pan with the bottom facing up, the opposite way from how it comes assembled.

This will help you when removing the cheesecake from the pan, not having to fight with the lip.

Wrap the base with plastic wrap.  This will make it easier to remove the cheesecake when done unless you plan to serve on the bottom of the pan.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse the almonds into small pieces, then add the coconut, cacao, and salt.

Be careful that you don’t over-process the nuts and head towards making a nut butter.  Nothing wrong with that… just not our goal at the moment.

This ensures that the dry ingredients (spices) get well distributed so you don’t end up with concentrated pockets of flavors.




Add the sweetener and vanilla, pulsing it together. Test the batter by pinching it between your fingers. If it holds, it is ready.

Distribute the crust evenly on the bottom of the pan, using gentle pressure.  If you press too hard, it might really stick to the base of the pan, making it hard to remove slices.  You can either just make the crust on the bottom of the pan, or you can also bring it up the sides.  If you go up the sides, double the recipe.

Set aside while you make the cheesecake batter.


Culturing step:


First and foremost, make sure all of the utensils and pieces of equipment you use for culturing are sterilized to avoid growing bad bacteria.

If at any time you see mold–fuzzy, black, or pink–it will need to be tossed.




Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.

In a high-speed blender, blend the coconut milk and cashews until they are creamy smooth.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm, stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




Add the probiotic and prebiotic powders.  Blend just long enough to mix the powders in well.

These are added last just in case the cashew batter gets too warm, which could possibly damage the probiotics.




Pour into a glass bowl, cover, and allow to culture/ferment.

The bowl can be left on the counter for 24  -/+ hours.  This process could happen in less time or may take longer than 24 hours. It all depends on how cool or warm your house is.

To speed up the process, or if your house runs cool, you can place the bowl in the cavity of your dehydrator. Turn the machine on the lowest setting, around 80 degrees. Check the culture flavor after 6 hours and see if it needs to go longer.




Once done, proceed with adding the remaining ingredients.


Complete the filling:


In the blender, place all the liquid ingredients in the carafe first: coconut oil, maple syrup, lemon juice, stevia, and vanilla. Follow with the cacao powder, instant coffee, salt, and cultured cashew batter.  Blend until well mixed.  Don’t let it get too warm.

Pour the batter into the prepared Springform pan.

Gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Chill in the freezer for 4-6 hours and then in the fridge for 12 hours.

Pour the chocolate ganache on top and spread it from one edge to the other.

Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 3-5 days or up to 3 months in the freezer.  Be sure that it is well sealed to avoid fridge odors.







Amie Sue’s tricks and tips: Always line the base of a Springform pan with plastic wrap.  This way you can remove the cake from the base with grace and ease when serving.  I also use a straight-edged measuring cup to create a smooth base and edges.






© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



