Summertime Polka Dot Cheesecake
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/summertime-polka-dot-cheesecake/



	Summertime Polka Dot Cheesecake

													    
    


				
Summertime and polka dots go hand in hand, well they do in my book.  I love it when foods take me on a stroll down memory lane, don’t you? Want to take a walk with me? Great, let’s go… You see, as a wee little one, I would spend my summers with my Great Grandparents, and one of her many talents was as a seamstress. First and foremost she was the Queen of Mac n’ Cheese!   I have touched on this before in other posts but not sure I talked about my beloved polka dots!



Do you remember those crop tube tops from the ’70s that had elastic necklines as well as around the bottom and arm cuffs? They usually had a single layer ruffle that wrapped around the chest. I was searching the net to find a picture of one, and they referred to them as vintage clothing. Say what?! I am not vintage, am I?! *shudders, gasps, the shock-the horror-the giggles.*

As the summer days approached, I would grow more and more excited about my trips to my Great Grandparents house. There were consistent staples when I stayed with them; homemade mac and cheese, mud pies, playing in the rain, sewing, baking, grapes, and swimming.  Upon my arrival, one of our Must-Do’s was to hit the fabric store so I could pick out some fabric for clothing that she had planned on making for me. For some reason, I always selected a polka-dotted print. Throughout my days with her, I would locate Great Grandma by the hum of the sewing machine emanating from the basement. I would find her four-foot-eight inch frame hunched over the sewing machine, the needle moving at light-speed, polka-dots blurring before my eyes. It wasn’t very long before Grandma would shoosh me outside to play in the mud so she could concentrate on her sewing.

As I slipped my newly-made creation on I would flounce around in my fluffy dotted tube top, blonde pigtails springing into full action, cheeks puffed up with a mouth full of grapes that sparkled with a blanket of freckles as the sun bent down to kiss me. Aaah, life was good. I wish I had a picture of me in one of those outfits to share with you, but unfortunately, I don’t have many photos of me as a child. Hopefully, I helped you get an image in your head. Anyway, all that is to say that every time I see polka dots, I think of my childhood, summer, and Great Grandma. Such warm and loving memories. That my friends is what prompted my little cheesecake creation here, with that said, let’s talk about how I made this summertime dessert.

Molds for Polka Dots and Top Decoration

When it comes to making the polka dots and the topper, you can use any mold you can find.  Unfortunately, I couldn’t find the topper mold that I used for this cheesecake online anymore. Though, this (one) is similar. As far as the polka dots go, I had a mold for making round ice cube trays. I have no clue where it came from, but this one is close to what mine is like, Polka Dot Mold.

You can get creative with whatever mold you decide to use, just make sure that you have them ready to go before you start making the polka dot agar mixture because as it cools, it starts to firm up. If this happens to you, simply reheat to melt it again.  It’s also best to place the silicone molds on a baking sheet for transferring. If you don’t, they will flop and spill. Once again, I learned these lessons for you. Make these days in advance if you want but don’t freeze them, they don’t hold up so well. I tested it out for you so I could let know.

This cheesecake has the most amazing creamy texture with fun pops of polka dots in each bite! Kids, young adults, or vintage peeps like me will thoroughly enjoy the childlikeness of it, so I encourage you to give the recipe a try. Please be sure to leave a comment below and have a wonderfully blessed day. amie sue



Ingredients:

9″ Springform pan 


Crust:



1 cups rolled gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

2 1/4 cup shredded coconut

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp liquid stevia

1/4 cup coconut butter, softened or 2 Tbsp melted coconut oil

1/2 cup water

2 Tbsp maple syrup





Filling:


2  1/2 cups raw cashews, soaked 2 + hours

1 3/4 cups raw coconut milk

3/4 cup maple syrup

3 Tbsp lemon juice

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/2 tsp NuNaturals liquid stevia

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3/4 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

2 Tbsp lecithin powder


Kiwi Polka Dots


1 cup diced kiwi, skins removed

1 cup water

2 Tbsp maple syrup

2 tsp matcha powder

1 Tbsp agar powder


Blueberry Polka Dots


1 cup fresh organic blueberries

1 cup water

2 Tbsp maple syrup

1 Tbsp agar powder


Strawberry Polka Dots & to Decor


1 cup fresh organic strawberries

1 cup water

2 Tbsp maple syrup

1 Tbsp agar powder


Preparation:



Polka Dots and Top Decoration


These can be made days in advance. Due to the agar, they won’t melt at room temperature.  When I made these, I had enough of each mixture to make 20 polka dots and another cheesecake topper.  It all depends on the polka dot mold you use (size and quantity).

Decide on what mold you want to use for your design if it is made from silicone place it on a cookie sheet so you can transfer it with ease once you pour the mixture into it.

In the blender combine the ingredients for each color polka dot you decide to make, except for the agar powder.

Once well blended, pour the mixture through a nut bag to strain out any skin flecks or seeds of the fruit.




Pour into a small saucepan, add the agar powder, whisk together, and let the agar bloom for about 5 minutes.

Turn the burner on to medium, and once the mixture starts to create soft bubbles, turn the heat down to simmer and cook for roughly 5 minutes until the agar is dissolved.

Pour the mixture in the selected mold and chill till firm (takes about 30 minutes).

Work quickly as the agar slurry cools as it thickens.

If this happens, you return it to the stovetop and warm until it melts.




Store in fridge in an airtight container while you make the cheesecake.



Crust:


Assemble a Springform pan with the bottom facing up, the opposite way from how it comes assembled, this will help you when removing the cheesecake from the pan, not having to fight with the lip.  Wrap the base with plastic wrap, so it will be it easier to remove the pie when done unless you plan on serving the cake on the bottom of the pan.

Place the oats, coconut, and salt in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade and process until the coconut is broken down to a fine of a powder.  It took about 30 seconds with my machine.

Add stevia, coconut oil, water, and maple syrup.  Process until the mixture sticks together when pinched.


Distribute the crust evenly on the bottom of the pan, using even and gentle pressure.  If you press too hard, it might really stick to the base of the pan, making it hard to remove slices.

See the “crust photo” below on what style of crust you want to create.





Set aside while you make the cheesecake batter.






Filling:


Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.  Place in a high-speed blender.

In a high-powered blender combine the; combine the cashews, coconut milk, maple syrup, lemon juice, vanilla, stevia, and salt.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is essential to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth, if the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.  The batter will start to thicken.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing, instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.





Cheesecake Assembly


After making the cheesecake mixture, tap the blender carafe on the countertop to work any bubbles in the mixture to the top.

Typically, we do this tapping technique after all the batter has been poured into the pan, but we don’t want to do that with this cheesecake. If you do, all the polka dots will sink to the bottom of your cheesecake.




Add some of the polka dots to the base of the crust pan. Pour about half of the cheesecake mixture over the top of them.

Add more polka dots, add the remaining batter, then lightly place the remaining polka dots around the edge of the cheesecake pan (picture below). I left the center blank so I could add the agar topper once the cheesecake was firm to the touch.

Pour the filling into the premade crust and gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Chill in the fridge for 12-24 hours to set it up. Don’t freeze this cheesecake because the agar polka dots don’t thaw well. They looked all wilted and aged when I tested it out for you.

Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 3-5 days.  Be sure that they are well sealed to avoid fridge odors.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



