Bob's Birthday Cherry Cheesecake (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/bobs-birthday-cherry-cheesecake/



	Bob’s Birthday Cherry Cheesecake

													    
    


				 



~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

If you have followed my recipe site for a while, you have come to know a little bit about my loving husband, Bob.  I find him to be the most amazing human being that I have ever met in my life.  He is my everything, and I cherish him to the ends of the earth.

Well, one thing that I might not have shared before is that Bob sings.  He has an amazing voice and sings to me all the time.  He even goes to my doctor appointments with me and sings to me while they draw blood (so I don’t pass out) hehe. By the time we leave, he is usually offered a job. He is truly a man of many talents, and I am so blessed to be on the receiving end of them.

Why am I getting all mushy about Bob? Because I created this cheesecake for him as a birthday request. Hence the name, Bob’s Birthday Cherry Cheesecake, so I thought I would share a little something special about him.

Now about the cheesecake… here’s the interesting thing that always catches me off guard when I make it… as it is blending it looks pink, but soon it turns a tan color, then darkens even further as it sets up. I know it’s because I tend to use Bing cherries which dark red to purple in color… but there is always a slight twinge of disappointment as I see the shifting of color take place. But, I will say… it doesn’t affect the flavor in the least.

Below under “preparation” I have listed out some substitution options so be sure to read through the recipe before starting.  I keep learning and testing new things when I remake the recipes on my site. I hope you enjoy. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 9″ Springform pan



Crust Ingredients:


3 cups (248 g)shredded dried coconut, unsweetened

1/2 cup (62 g) ground flax seeds

1/4 cup (20g) raw cacao powder

2 tsp (2 g) ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

8 (90 g) moist Medjool dates, pitted

3 Tbsp (42 g) raw coconut oil, melted

5 Tbsp  (136 g) maple syrup


Filling 


2 cups (492 g) Young Thai coconut meat

2 cups (482 g) frozen organic cherries, thawed

3 Tbsp (60 g ) lemon juice

1/2 cup (168 g) maple syrup, see below for sugar-free option

1 vanilla bean, seeds only or 1/2 tsp (2 g) vanilla bean powder

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1 1/4 cups (254 g) raw coconut oil, melted

3 Tbsp (20 g ) lecithin powder


Chocolate Ganache: yields 1 cup


3/4 cup maple syrup

3/4 cup cocoa powder or raw cacao powder

1/3 cup raw virgin coconut oil, melted

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:

Crust:

Assemble a Springform pan with the bottom facing up, the opposite way from how it comes assembled.

This will help you when removing the cheesecake from the pan, so you don’t have to fight with the lip when removing a slice of cheesecake.

Wrap the base with plastic wrap.  This will make it easier to remove the pie when done… unless you plan on serving the cake on the bottom of the pan.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the dry ingredients; coconut, cacao, flax meal, cinnamon, and salt in the food processor, and pulse together to mix.

This ensures that the dry ingredients (spices) get well distributed, so you don’t end up with concentrated pockets of flavors.




Add dates, sweetener, and coconut oil, processing till the batter sticks together.

Depending on your machine, you may need to stop the unit and scrape the sides down during this process.

Test the batter by pinching it between your fingers.  If it holds, it is ready.

To cut down the sugars, you can omit the dates and add 1/3 cup of water… enough, so it sticks together when pinched




Distribute the crust evenly on the bottom of the pan, using even and gentle pressure.

If you press too hard, it might really stick badly to the base of the pan, making it hard to remove slices.

You can either just make the crust on the bottom of the pan, or you can also bring it up the sides.  It is up to you.




Set aside while you make the cheesecake batter.




Filling:



In a high-speed blender combine the coconut meat, cherries (and their juice from thawing), lemon juice, maple syrup, vanilla, and salt.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

If you don’t have Young Thai coconut meat, you can use 2 cups (270 g) of cashews. Soak them for 2+ hour, drain and rinse before adding.

If using fresh, pitted cherries, use 2 cups (285 g).

For sugar-free use, 1/2 cup (81 g) Markus Sweet, powdered instead of the sweetener listed above.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over process.  The batter will start to thicken.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Pour the batter into the pan.

Gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Chill in the freezer for 4-6 hours and then in the fridge for 12 hours.

Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 3-5 days or up to 3 months in the freezer.  Be sure that they are well sealed to avoid fridge odors.


Ganache:


Place all of the ingredients in a blender and process until smooth.

Stop occasionally to scrape down the sides of the blender jar with a rubber spatula.

After the cheesecake starts to firm up, pour the ganache on top and gently spread across the top of the cheesecake.

Slide back into the freezer until it sets up really firm.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



