Orange Creamsicle Chocolate Fudge Truffle Cheesecake (raw, vegan
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/orange-creamsicle-chocolate-fudge-truffle-cheesecake/



	Orange Creamsicle Chocolate Fudge Truffle Cheesecake

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I have always loved surprises in life and this cheesecake was a delicious surprise.  It’s not that I didn’t expect it to turn out, but the flavor and texture combination turned out to be quite extraordinary.

When taking a bite of this decadent dessert, I suggest that you take it slow and allow the flavors and textures of each layer to really develop in your mouth.  So let’s begin… The pillowy, velvety, smoothness of the orange creamsicle layer literally melts on your tongue.  As it begins to slowly mingle with the thick chocolate fudge layer, it is met with the slight coconutty crunch of the crust.   A remarkable experience if I may say so myself.

When creating layers of cheesecakes, it is best to place each layer in the freezer just long enough for it to firm up.  This will keep the layers nice and even when adding another one on top.

I created this recipe to sell down at a local cafe.  My husband, Bob loved it so much that he went down and bought several slices. lol  If what I shared hasn’t enticed you yet… what is wrong with you?!  Just teasing.  :)

Ingredients:

Yields one 10″ Springform pan

Crust:



2 cups coconut flakes, unsweetened

1/2 cup date paste

1/4 cup lucuma powder

1/8 tsp sea salt

1 tsp vanilla extract


Ganache:


1 batch Chocolate Ganache Frosting



Creamsicle filling:


3 cups raw cashews, soaked 2 + hours

1 cup raw coconut milk or canned

3/4 cup maple syrup

1 cup orange juice, fresh squeezed

3 Tbsp vanilla extract

3/4 tsp orange extract

1/2 tsp NuNaturals liquid stevia

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

3 Tbsp sunflower lecithin powder or liquid



Preparation:

Crust:


Place all of the ingredients in the food processor and combine everything using the “S” blade.

Pat the crust dough into the pan.  You can line it with parchment paper for the ease of serving it.


Ganache:


Create the ganache following the directions on the link above.

Spread the ganache over the crust and place in the freezer while you create the filling.


Filling:



After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soaking liquid.

In a high-speed blender combine the cashews, coconut milk, maple syrup, orange juice, vanilla & orange extract, stevia, and salt.  Blend until the batter is smooth.  Test this by rubbing the batter between your forefinger and thumb.  If you feel any grit, continue the process.  This can take up to 5 minutes.

Add the coconut oil, blend.

Add the lecithin, blend.

Option: To create the swirl effect – Save 1 cup of filling in a separate bowl.  Add a few drops of natural food coloring and mix well.

Pour the filling into the Springform pan.  Gently tap the pan on the counter to bring up any air bubbles.

Chill overnight in the fridge.  This can also be made ahead of time and frozen.

When serving, run your knife under hot water between each cut.  This will give you nice clean cuts.  How to slice a cake.  Click here.

Keep in fridge until ready to serve.


Tips:


It is important to soak your cashews for at least 2 hours.  This helps to soften them, assuring you a much more smooth texture.

The reason for adding the oil and lecithin at the end is because you don’t want to over-process the coconut oil, causing separation and the lecithin is a thickener so you want to make sure that you have the texture right where you want it before adding it in.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



