Strawberry Key-Lime Mojito Cheesecake (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/strawberry-key-lime-mojito-cheesecake/



	Strawberry Key-Lime Mojito Cheesecake

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Mojito is a traditional Cuban highball. Traditionally, it is a cocktail that consists of five ingredients: white rum, sugar, lime juice, sparkling water, and mint.  And it is where my inspiration came from… this coming from a woman who hasn’t ever had a drink in her life. lol  Inspiration comes in mysterious ways, doesn’t it?

I have to say that this has turned out to be an all-time favorite. A magical pairing took place between the tartness of the lemon and lime… and the sweet mintiness of the strawberry glaze.  Not only that, it is stunningly beautiful.

To create a really striking look to this dessert, I kept the crust and filling pure white.  In order to do this, I had to soak and skin the almonds before dehydrating them.  From there, they were ground into a gorgeous white flour.  It’s an extra step but well worth it, as you can see.  Besides, it is very therapeutic to pop almonds out of their skins. If raw isn’t your priority, you can use store-bought finely ground flour.  That’s entirely your call.  The world is full of options.

Fresh and Organic Strawberries

I don’t know about you but just the mere mention of strawberries makes my mouth water.  Make sure that you select organic, deep red strawberries.  Did you know that you can tell how sweet a strawberry is by the color of the tiny seeds that are embedded on the surface of the berry?  The darker in color they are, the sweeter the berry. Don’t use pale or bruised berries.  Aim for the best quality.  If the season for fresh berries has slipped by, you can use organic frozen strawberries.  Be sure to thaw and drain them before using.

Ingredients:

Yields one 9” Springform pan


Crust:


2 1/2 cups shredded coconut

3/4 cup raw almond flour – read above

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup raw coconut butter, softened

6 Tbsp water

3 Tbsp maple syrup



Strawberry glaze:


1 cup sliced organic strawberries

1 tsp fresh squeezed lime juice

1/4 cup raw honey

1 Tbsp psyllium

2 Tbsp fresh mint, finely chopped

16 oz. fresh strawberries, sliced




Key lime filling:


3 cups raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup raw almond milk (2:1 ratio)

1/2  cup lime juice

1/2 cup lemon juice

2 Tbsp lime zest

3/4 cup maple syrup

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

3 Tbsp sunflower lecithin powder or liquid



Preparation:

Crust:

Assemble a Springform pan with the bottom facing up, the opposite way from how it comes assembled.  This will help you when removing the cheesecake from the pan, not having to fight with the lip.  Wrap the base with plastic wrap.  This will make it easier to remove the pie when done… unless you plan on serving the cake on the bottom of the pan.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse the coconut, flour, and salt together.

Be careful that you don’t over-process and head towards making a nut butter.  Nothing wrong with that… just not our goal at the moment.




Add the coconut butter, water, and sweetener. Process until the batter sticks together.

Depending on your machine, you may need to stop the unit and scrape the sides down during this process.

Test the batter by pinching it between your fingers.  If it holds, it is ready.




Distribute the crust evenly on the bottom of the pan, using even and gentle pressure.  If you press too hard it might really stick to the base of the pan, making it hard to remove slices.  You can either just make the crust on the bottom of the pan or you can also bring it up the sides.  It is up to you.

Set aside while you make the cheesecake batter.


Strawberry glaze:


In the blender combine 1 cup of strawberries, lime juice, honey, and psyllium.  Blend until creamy smooth.

Slice the remaining strawberries into bite-size pieces and place in a medium bowl.

Add the strawberry sauce and mint.  Stir together and place in the fridge for 30 minutes.

Once thickened, pour over the lime filling.



Filling:



Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.  Place in a high-speed blender.

In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, almond milk, lime & lemon juice, sweetener, vanilla, and salt.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.

You can use a different liquid sweetener if you are not comfortable with agave.  Just be aware of the different flavors and colors that the sweetener might impart to the cake.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape down the sides.




Immediately pour the batter into the pan.

Gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Chill in the freezer for 4-6 hours till firm enough to add the strawberry glaze.

Spread the glaze gently over the cheesecake and place in the fridge for 12 hours.

Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 3-5 days or up to 3 months in the freezer.  Be sure that it is well sealed to avoid fridge odors.

How to slice a cake.  Click here.


Have you ever seen a naked almond?

This is what I was referring to in order to get a white flour.

You would soak, peel, dehydrate and grind into a flour to

get that pure white color for the crust.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



