Pumpkin Spice Cheesecake with Pecan Caramel Sauce -Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/pumpkin-spice-cheesecake-with-pecan-caramel-sauce/



	Pumpkin Spice Cheesecake with Pecan Caramel Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Tonight we celebrated our dear friend David’s birthday.  With the gathering of our friends, not only did we sing happy birthday… we laughed, shared stories, created a bunch of dirty dishes… but to top it all off we shared wonderful dinner and topped it with this belly satisfying raw dessert!

Pumpkin is one of his favorite flavors so I knew I had to make this for him.  Believe it or not but I bought this sugar pumpkin back in December.  They have an amazing shelf life when stored properly.

The key to really getting that wonderful pumpkin flavor is to use a sugar pumpkin. I realize that you may stumble upon this recipe during the off-season for pumpkins so here are a few ideas. Number one, when pumpkin season does roll around, puree a few of them and store it in the freezer. That way you can enjoy it year-round.

The other alternative is to use canned. I know, it’s not raw, but we need to remember that everyone comes to this lifestyle at a different stage and there is no judgment, just support, and encouragement.

If you do decide to go with canned, be sure to look for a pumpkin puree that comes in a BPA-free can, is organic, and doesn’t have any other ingredients.

I have made this recipe many times over. You can make it in the shape of bars or as a pie like I did this time.  Be creative and have fun with it.

I hope you enjoy this Pumpkin Spice Cheesecake with Pecan Caramel Sauce as much as we did.  Be sure to leave a comment below. Have a blessed and happy day, amie sue



Ingredients:

Yields 9″ Springform pan

Crust:


2 cups raw pecans, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup packed Medjool dates, pitted

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Filling:


2 cups raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2 cups fresh almond milk

2 cups cubed raw sugar pumpkin or 1 3/4 cup puree

4 Tbsp lemon juice

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 1/2 tsp pumpkin pie spice

3/4 cup maple syrup

3 Tbsp ground sunflower lecithin

1 cup cold-pressed raw coconut oil, melted


Pecan Carmel Sauce:


1/2 cup raw almond butter

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup yacon syrup

1/2 cup date paste

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup water (may need more or less, do you want to drizzle or use as a frosting?)

1/2 – 1 cup raw pecans,  soaked, dehydrated and chopped


Preparation:

Crust:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade,  process the pecans along with the salt till it breaks down to a small crumble.

Note on dates ~ the dates are dry and hard, rehydrate them in warm water for about 15 minutes, until softened.  Drain and discard the soak water.  Hand-squeeze any excess water from the dates before adding to the nuts.

Open the food processor and lay the dates around the bowl.  Return the lid and process until the batter sticks together when pinched.  Be careful not to over-process.  This will cause the pecan’s natural oil to release and make the crust oily.

Press the crust mixture into the bottom of the pan. Set aside while you make the filling.


Filling:


Drain and rinse the soak water from the cashews.

In a high-speed blender add the almond milk, cashews, lemon juice, cubed pumpkin, salt, pumpkin spice,  and maple syrup until very smooth.

Depending on the blender, this can take 1-3 minutes.  Stop and test the filling by rubbing it between two fingers.  If you fill ANY grit, continue blending.

This is a good time to taste test.  You may need to add additional spice or sweetness, it all depends on the quality of the pumpkin you used.  We are dealing with fresh ingredients here and the taste can vary largely due to ripeness, etc.

If you don’t have pumpkin spice, you make your own by combining the following: 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon, 1/4 tsp ground ginger, 1/8 tsp ground allspice or ground cloves, and 1/8 tsp ground nutmeg.  Stir to blend. Makes 1 tsp of pumpkin pie spice.




Add the lecithin and melted coconut oil and continue blending until everything is well-integrated.

Pour the mixture over the prepared crust.

Gently tap your pan on the countertop to bring all the bubbles to the surface.

Place in the fridge to set up.


Caramel sauce:


In a high-powered blender combine the almond butter, maple syrup, yacon syrup, date paste, vanilla, salt, water, and process until smooth.  You may need to stop occasionally to scrape the sides down.

Hand stir in pecan or place on top after applying the caramel sauce.

Store leftover sauce in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks.  To soften, leave it out at room temperature for a few hours or place the container in a bowl of hot water.

Assembly:  Pour caramel over the cheesecake and allow it to drizzle down the sides. Cut and serve!!  Keep chilled.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Learn how to make your own raw almond butter by clicking (here).



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



