Blackberry Lemon Cheesecake (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cheesecakes/blackberry-lemon-cheesecake/



	Blackberry Lemon Cheesecake

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This raw blackberry lemon cheesecake recipe is made with all natural ingredients and is gluten and dairy free! It has a rich and creamy cashew coconut base that is sweetened with maple syrup and flavored with fresh squeezed lemon juice. Add in a swirl of blackberry sauce and you have a masterpiece just waiting to be shared amongst many.

Today’s creation took place based on the need to use up some blackberries that I had.  There are tons of other, simplistic recipes I could have made with those little jewels, like perhaps just dumping them into a smoothie….BUT that is taking the easy way out.  I decided to shoot for some sort of cheesecake.

There is one particular ingredient that a lot of people end up asking me about and that is lecithin.  There is a two-fold reason as to why I use it in my recipes.  You can omit if need be, but first, hear me out. I always have a reason behind the ingredients that I use.

Why I add sunflower lecithin.

First of all, I use sunflower lecithin because I abstain from soy. If you use soy based products, you can use it just make sure it is non-GMO. Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support healthy function of the brain, nervous system and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints; helps break up cholesterol in the body.

It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.  I prefer the powdered, raw sunflower lecithin.  It seems to have less flavor than the liquid form.  Plus, the liquid comes in a dark amber color which can sometimes alter the color of the recipe.  Setting aside all the nutritional benefits, it is a natural emulsifier that binds the fats from nuts with water creating a creamy consistency.

When looking for pans or molds to pour the batter into… be creative. You can use one eight inch Spring form pan, for two, three-inch pans, or perhaps serve it up in individual servings. For this, I love to use small mason jars.  This is a great way to serve it when hosting large gatherings. It prompts portion control, no messy cuts, and people can walk around mingling which spooning out bites of their yummy cheesecake.  I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 8″ Springform pan

Crust:


2 cups (284 g) raw cashews

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3 oz (85 g) date paste

1 tsp vanilla extract



Blackberry syrup: yields 1 1/2 cups

Using frozen blackberries:


1 cup frozen blackberries, thawed

3 Medjool dates, pitted

1 tsp lemon juice

3/4 cup of blackberry juice (from the thawed berries)

2 Tbsp raw agave or sweetener if needed


OR

Using fresh blackberries:


1 1/2 cups  fresh blackberries

3 Medjool dates, pitted

1/4 cup water

1 tsp lemon juice

2 Tbsp raw agave or sweetener if needed



Cheesecake filling:


3 cups of raw cashews, soak 2 hours

1 1/2 cup fresh almond milk

3/4 cup raw agave syrup or maple syrup

1 cup fresh lemon juice

1 Tbsp liquid vanilla

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3 Tbsp sunflower lecithin

3/4 cup coconut oil, melted

2 pints of organic blackberries, for decoration (if desired)




Preparation:

Crust:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, process the cashews and salt into small pieces.

I like to go by sound to know when it’s done.  At first, it will sound like pebbles rumbling around but soon it will shift to a gentle hum… this is when it is ready for the next step.




Add the dates and vanilla.  Process until well mixed.

  The final crust dough should hold together when you pinch it between your fingers.




Assemble the Springform pan with the bottom facing up. I used an 8″ pan here.  Opposite way from how it comes assembled.

This will help you when removing the cheesecake from the pan, not having to fight with the lip).

Or Lightly grease the pan with coconut oil.




Distribute the crust evenly on the bottom of the pan, using even and gentle pressure.

If you press too hard it might stick, making it hard to remove slices.




Set aside while you make the cheesecake batter.


Blackberry Syrup:


In your blender, blend together all of the ingredients, until smooth.

Pour the mixture into a nut bag and squeeze the juice out, leaving the pulp/seeds in the bag.

Transfer syrup to a squeeze bottle and set aside.





Filling:



Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.  Place in a high-speed blender.

In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, almond milk, sweetener, lemon juice, vanilla, and salt.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.

You can use a different liquid sweetener if you are not comfortable with agave.  Just be aware of the different flavors and colors that the sweetener might impart in the cake.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over process.  The batter will start to thicken.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Pour the batter into the pan.

Gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Take the squeeze bottle of blackberry sauce and poke the tip into the filling, squeeze so it pushes the sauce into the filling.  Keep squeezing as you withdrawal the tip, leaving a puddle on top.

If you don’t continue squeezing while withdrawing, it will suck batter into the bottle.

Do this all over the cheesecake, as much as you want.  The more you use, the more color that will be in the cheesecake.

If you left over sauce, use to drizzle over the cheesecake upon serving.

To create the swirls, drag a wooden skewer or chopstick through the puddles… this creates the beautiful unique design.




Chill in the freezer for 4-6 hours and then in the fridge for 12 hours.

Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 3-5 day or up to 3 months in the freezer.  Be sure that they are well sealed to avoid fridge odors.




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



