Candy Coating Chocolate (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/chocolate/candy-coating-chocolate/



	Candy Coating Chocolate

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

It’s rich, semi-sweet, messy to work with; it’s finger-licking good so clean up is a pleasurable experience.

Finding the right recipe for raw chocolate is easy but finding one that hardeners and looks wonderful to use as a chocolate coating are a bit more challenging.  I went through 3 recipes yesterday till I found this winner.

Double Dipping Encouraged

This is one of those times when double-dipping is encouraged. I didn’t do it for this in the photo to the right but if you want to create a thicker chocolate skin around your treat, keep on dipping! Simply dip your item in the chocolate, remove it, allow it to set, then dip it again. Feel free to repeat the process as many times as you want.


Why I add sunflower lecithin.

Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support healthy function of the brain, nervous system, and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints; helps break up cholesterol in the body.

It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.  I prefer the powdered form of lecithin. Setting aside all the nutritional benefits, it is a natural emulsifier that binds the fats from nuts with water creating a creamy consistency.  In this recipe, the lecithin also adds a nice smoothness.  It is optional, but I highly recommend it.


Ingredients:


1 cup (88 g) grated raw cacao butter

1 cup raw cacao powder

1/3 cup sweetener; agave, yacon, maple syrup (not raw)

1 tsp lecithin powder

1 tsp vanilla extract

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Ensure all utensils, and the bowl is dry before the ingredients.

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

Click (here) to learn how to grate and melt the cacao butter.

Place the raw cacao butter, cacao powder, sweetener, lecithin, and salt in a high-speed blender and blend until smooth.

Dip your treats in the chocolate, double-dipping if desired for a thicker chocolate skin.

Place on parchment paper and place in the freezer to set up.

If you are adding any decorations such as crushed nuts, sprinkle these on right away while the chocolate is still wet.

To see how I made the Truffles in the picture above, please visit raw-minty-chocolate-truffles.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



