Gingerbread Wafer Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/christmas/gingerbread-wafer-cookies/



	Gingerbread Wafer Cookies

													    
    


				One bite of these cookies, and you will understand what it feels like to taste a hug. Each bite is packed with the amazing, rich flavors of molasses, ginger, cloves, and cinnamon. A symphony of flavors that will have your taste buds singing in unison! They leave a lasting impression as the warm spices linger with each bite taken.



I sort of feel like I am cheating with this recipe. It is actually the Hum Mud Cookie recipe (with a slight modification). I decided to create a new posting for it just in case someone was searching for a wafer-like cookie. I talked about molasses over there, but I will mention it here only in case you are questioning the use of it.

What is Molasses? Is it Raw?

Molasses is a byproduct of making sugar; it is the brown syrup leftover once the sugar crystals are removed. There is Fancy Molasses, which is the sweetest and has a light color. Light Molasses (made from the first boiling of the cane) contains 40% less sugar than Fancy Molasses, has a more subtle flavor, and is even lighter in color. Dark Molasses (made from the second boiling) is darker in color, thicker and less sweet. I first started my experimentation with Blackstrap Molasses, which is very dark and has a slightly bitter, robust flavor. Using this left our first batch with a strange aftertaste, so I tried another version.

Then we move onto Cooking Molasses, which is a blend of Fancy and Blackstrap Molasses. It results in a darker, less sweet product. But wait, there’s more… Any of these can be Unsulphured Molasses, which is said to have the best flavor, and I have to agree because this is what nailed it for Bob’s childhood memory of Hum Mud cookies. To keep this recipe fully raw, you can use Yacon syrup or raw coconut nectar instead. The flavor isn’t as intense and rich, but still good.



These cookies are also a crowd-pleasing favorite for sharing at holiday celebrations or for gift giving. They package nicely without sticking to one another, so pile them high and wrap them with a bow. If you have the time (but not required at all), I recommend preparing the cookie dough a day ahead of when you plan to make the cookies, allowing the flavors to blend and enhance one another.

12/24/2021 UPDATE – I had a member reach out this morning to ask if there was a way to reduce the fat content but cutting the almond flour with something. I had just enough time to test the recipe for her but I had to bake them verses dehydrating due to time. See below if this interests you as well. blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields: (depends on size)  cookies


3 cups (335 g) fine almond flour

1/4 cup (43 g) raw coconut crystals

1 tsp (2 g) ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp (1 g) ground cloves

1/4 tsp (1 g) ground ginger

1/2 tsp (3 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup (86 g) unsulphured molasses or raw Yacon syrup

2 Tbsp (30 g) water


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, coconut crystals, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, and salt. Process together, making sure all the spices are distributed.

I created a fine almond flour from the dehydrated almond pulp. You can create your own the same way, purchase store-bought processed almond flour, or use ground nuts (will change the texture of the cookie.)

If the coconut crystals are in large grains, I would grind them down to a finer texture in a spice or coffee grinder.




Add the sweetener and water. Process until it forms a thick dough ball as it spins about the food processor.

Roll the dough out.

Place the cookie dough in the center of the nonstick dehydrator sheet or plastic wrap.

Place another one on top and roll the dough out very thin, less than 1/4″.

Transfer the cookies to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

When all scraps are gathered, repeat the process.




Dehydrate for 1 hour at 145 degrees (F), then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 10-16 hours.  At this point, take one out and let it cool, see how firm it is. It won’t get snappy crispy… but it should have some “snap ” to it.

Store in an airtight container on the counter for 1-2 weeks.



Looking to Reduce Fat Calories in this Recipe?

Note the ** in the ingredient list for recipe changes.

Ingredients:

Yields: (depends on size)  cookies

1 1/2 cups fine almond flour **

1 1/2 cups whole rolled oats, powdered ** (equaled 1 3/4 cup oat flour)

1/4 cup raw coconut crystals

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp ground cloves

1/4 tsp ground ginger

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup unsulphured molasses

4 Tbsp water **

I didn’t roll mine out as thin as I did in the photos and ended up baking them for 12 minutes at 350 degrees (F). I didn’t have time for dehydrating. They turned out so good! Bob and I both found that the cookies were a bit milder in flavor. Follow the same directions as above if dehydrating.

Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



