Malted Hot Chocolate
https://nouveauraw.com/christmas/malted-hot-chocolate/



	Malted Hot Chocolate

													    
    


				
Few beverages are as deeply-rooted in childhood memories as hot chocolate. It’s rich, thick, creamy, amazingly warming and comforting, like a big hug in a mug!  And why not take an ordinary wintery drink and turn it into a super-food hot chocolate?!



This hot chocolate is not your ordinary hot chocolate. It is loaded with superfoods, which I touch on down below. Nothing beats a mug of hot chocolate on a bone-chilling day. You can warm this chocolaty drink in several ways. Once blended, it can be heated on the stove-top, or if you have a blender such as a Vitamix or Blendtec (basically, a high powered one), you can put it on the heat button. It will bring your hot chocolate to the perfect temperature! Blend, pour, and adore! With all the yummy ingredients used, it’s easy to see why it would taste so good, but let me explain why and what each ingredient does. That way, you can be doubly impressed!

Raw Cacao Powder

The cacao gives it such an incredible boost of disease-fighting antioxidants, as well as lots of the happy hormone: serotonin, which is a natural mood-boosting and anti-depressant! And you thought hot chocolate made you feel good just based on the flavor. (silly wabbit).

Non-Dairy Milk

The base of this hot chocolate is a non-dairy milk. You can use any plant-based milk. Each one is unique will give different results. They are all loaded with energizing plant proteins, heart-healthy fats, and an incredible dose of vitamin E, which is fantastic for healthy hair and glowing skin.


Cashew Milk –  it is slightly sweet and neutral in flavor. It doesn’t require straining, so it creates a very creamy hot chocolate. If you plan on warming your milk on the stove-top, you should know that cashew milk thickens as it cooks. If it gets too thick, you can thin it out with a bit of water.

Almond Milk – it is slightly sweet with a hint of nuttiness to it. If you wish to make the hot chocolate with almond milk, I would suggest using less water when making it, which will give it a creamy consistency.

Coconut Milk – it is more on the sweet side (which is a welcomed addition to hot chocolate), but it has a very particular flavor; flowery and tropical.


Sweeteners

I chose Medjool dates as my primary sweetener with a drop or two of stevia. Medjool dates have a deep brown skin color with a flavor that often described as caramel-like. Not only is the flavor desirable, but they also come with some health benefits. Did you know that Medjool dates have a significant level of potassium in them? They are also high in fiber, which makes them a smart choice when it comes to keeping yourself regular. You can learn more about them (here) in another post I wrote. I mentioned that I also added a drop or two of liquid stevia; this is optional. I wanted it to be a tad bit sweeter but didn’t want to add the sugars. NuNatural liquid stevia is excellent to brighten the flavor of other sweeteners or can be used alone.

Maca Powder

This is where the malt flavor comes into play. What is maca? It is a type of cruciferous vegetable native to the Andes of Peru. There are many health benefits to it. Still, one main reason I love using it in recipes is that that it is considered an “adaptogen,” which helps the body naturally adapt to stressors like a busy schedule, demanding job, or illness. (holiday stress?)  There are many different types of maca on the market. Personally, I use one that is gelatinized. It has been pre-cooked to dissolve most of the starch, making it easier to digest and more concentrated. I will post a link to the ingredients below. You can use any brand or type of your liking.

Ground Espresso Powder

Using espresso powder is 100% optional. It is not a raw product. For those of you who don’t know, instant espresso powder is brewed espresso that has been dehydrated and processed into granules that easily dissolve in liquids. It has a rich, somewhat bitter coffee flavor that makes chocolate shine. While you wouldn’t necessarily know the espresso powder was there, the chocolate will be stronger and more intense. Just think of espresso as chocolate’s biggest cheerleader.

Sea Salt

Say what? Sea salt in hot chocolate? No, I haven’t fallen off my rocker. Salt, GOOD sea salt is an excellent nutrient for the body. It contains 84 trace minerals. Go ahead and click (here) to learn about all the benefits it has to offer.  A small amount of salt brings out the flavor of the chocolate. Can you skip it? Yep! Do I recommend doing that? Nope. But you are the commander of your own ship so you can decide.

Ceylon Cinnamon

Cinnamon is not just cinnamon. Are you aware that different kinds affect the flavor of your dishes?  I have learned first hand that one may offer a sweet, delicate flavor, and another can have a hot, spicy flavor.  So be careful, this could really alter the overall flavor of your recipe! In all my recipes, I use Ceylon cinnamon as it is considered the true cinnamon. It has a lighter, sweeter, and more delicate flavor. Please click (here) to read about the health benefits and some possible warnings.

Irish Moss

Hmm, I bet you weren’t expecting that, were you? I can understand why, so let me explain. It’s a fantastic thickener and emulsifier (able to bind fat and water-based ingredients) and can help cut down on the number of nuts needed in many recipes. Health-wise it is high in minerals, protein, iodine and helps plump up your skin. If you wish to learn more about it, click (here).  Shew, there’s a lot of “clicking” going on in this post. Knowledge. We should always crave knowledge regarding the ingredients we put in our bodies.

I hope that I didn’t overload you with too much information. I just wanted you to understand why I chose the ingredients that I did. They all play a role! I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please be sure to leave a comment below. blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 servings


2 cups nut milk or coconut milk

3 Medjool dates, pitted

2 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1/2 tsp maca powder

1/2 tsp ground espresso powder

1/8 tsp sea salt

1/2 tsp Ceylon ground cinnamon

1/2 tsp vanilla extract

NuNaturals liquid stevia – to taste if needed

1 Tbsp Irish moss paste (optional)


Preparation


Place all the ingredients into the blender and blend until the carafe is warm to the touch. Enjoy right away!

Sorry, it’s just that simple. :)

P.s. I don’t advise pouring hot liquid while trying to take a photo. haha

Here is a link in how I make my vegan whip cream.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



