Lemon Coconut Bark (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/coconut-bark/lemon-coconut-bark/



	Lemon Coconut Bark

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I find the taste of lemon to be so refreshing.  I had a girlfriend one time eat an entire lemon without even curling the edge of her lip!

In 8th grade and my girlfriend was spending the night. My dad approached her with a lemon in hand and made a bet with her.  He said that he would give her $5 if she would eat a whole lemon and not make a face. This was the type of friendship that they had. Always picking on another.

It’s amazing what teenagers will do for $5.00.  She peeled the lemon and wedge by wedge, downed the whole thing, didn’t make a face, held out her hand, and happily pocketed that $5 that my dad handed over in complete awe.

To this day we still chuckle over that.  Now, I am a lemon lover, no doubt about that, but I don’t think I could eat it whole, let alone not suck my face inside out.  But these little bite-size morsels offer a cool refreshing hint of lemon.

Coconut oil is considered an MCT oil (medium-chain triglycerides). This type of fat reacts a lot differently than other oils. MCT oils bypass the metabolic burden of processing in the liver so they quickly become energy in our brain and muscles.

Now that is my kind of fat. Never thought I would mutter those words. I am a survivor of the 80’s No-Fat fade.  I truly now believe that certain fats, healthy fats, are vital to a person’s health.

So, I created these coconut bark recipes, AKA fat bombs, to help give me a pick-me-up in the late mornings or afternoons.  If you are new to consuming MCT oils, start small, with a teaspoon, and work yourself up.  If you rush in, it can cause tummy distress and I would like to save you from that.

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Nutritional value per treat (1 Tbsp)

Calories – 121 / Fat – 14 g / Carbs 0.4 g / Protein 0.1 g

Ingredients:

Yields 8 (1 Tbsp bark chips)


1/2 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, softened

1/2 -1 tsp lemon extract

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/2 tsp liquid stevia

1 Tbsp shredded coconut, unsweetened (see below)

Dash Turmeric for coloring


Preparation:


Soften the coconut oil by placing the coconut container in a bowl filled with hot water.

Do not completely melt it, just warm it to a softened stage.

The reason for keeping the coconut oil at a  soft stage rather than melted is when the oil is pure liquid all of the added ingredients sink to the bottom of your mold.

With the coconut oil at a soft, thick stage everything will remain suspended in the oil.




Add the extracts and stevia.  Using a spatula, mix everything together until well combined.

Take your mold and add 1/4 tsp of shredded coconut to the bottom and spread evenly.

Place a piping bag or zip-lock bag in a tall glass, folding the edges over.

Pour the bark mixture into the bag, remove, twist shut, snip the tip and gently pipe the mixture into the molds.

This method gives a tad more control when using smaller molds.




Freeze for at least 10 minutes.  Once frozen, pop them out and store them in an air-tight, freezer-proof container.

Note: these will melt at room temp so it is best to pull one out and eat right away.


 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



