Tiramisu Coconut Candies (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/coconut-bark/tiramisu-coconut-candies/



	Tiramisu Coconut Candies

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Today’s recipe is a quick and easy recipe to throw together.  Within 10 minutes, you will have a healthy treat, just waiting for you to need a boost of energy. Typically, people turn to sugar for energy, but that’s a false energy spike that will soon leave you feeling dragging.

MCT Oils

MCT stands for medium-chain triglycerides. “This type of fat is digested easily and sent directly to your liver, where they have a thermogenic effect and the ability to alter your metabolism positively. Which is one reason why many people claim that MCTs, including coconut oil, are burned by the body for energy or “fuel,” instead of being stored as fat.” (1)

No Guilt Snack

Feel free to use any candy mold to shape these treats. As long as it makes you smile… it will work. :)  If you like Tiramisu Cake, I have a fantastic recipe for creating a healthy, raw Tiramisu dessert.  Tiramisu (using Agar Agar) or Tiramisu (using Irish Moss).

For this recipe, you can use either raw coconut butter or coconut oil, or a mix of the two.  Each will give you a bit of a different texture, but all are amazingly delicious! I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 8 truffles


1/2 cup raw coconut butter or coconut oil, softened

1 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1 tsp coffee extract

1/2 tsp rum extract

1/2 tsp vanilla extract

1/2 tsp liquid stevia


Preparation:


Soften the coconut butter by placing the coconut container in a bowl filled with hot water.

Do not completely melt it; just warm it to a softened stage.

The reason for keeping the coconut butter at a  soft stage rather than melted is when the butter is pure liquid; all of the added ingredients sink to the bottom of your mold.

With the coconut butter at a soft, thick stage, everything will remain suspended in the oil.




Add the cacao powder, coffee, rum, vanilla extract, and stevia.  Using a spatula, mix everything until well combined.

Pour the fudge mixture into the selected mold.

Freeze for at least 10 minutes.  Once frozen, pop them out and store them in an air-tight, freezer-proof container.

If you use coconut butter, they will withstand room temperature of 70 degrees.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



