Banana Cinnamon Coconut Bark (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/coconut-bark/banana-cinnamon-coconut-bark/



	Banana Cinnamon Coconut Bark

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, sugar-free ~

When I first started making my coconut oil bark, I would literally just mix it in a bowl and pour it into another shallow bowl, lined with plastic wrap.  Pop in the freezer and call it good.

BUT,  I decided it was worth it to make it beautiful.  It takes no extra time so why not make a gorgeous treat?! You can get so creative with your molds.  These days you can find about any shape that you desire.  So have fun with it!

I am sure that many of you are well aware of the health benefits of coconut oil but did you know that cinnamon offers some great health benefits as well.

Health Benefits of Cinnamon

Cinnamon is antimicrobial and also restrains the growth of fungi and yeast, making it potentially useful in the treatment of allergies. Cinnamon also holds promises for people with diabetes, because it appears to stimulate insulin activity thereby helping the body to process sugar more efficiently. To learn more, click here.

Health Benefits of Coconut Oil

I couldn’t pass up the chance to share a few words regarding coconut oil. It is known to help promote weight loss and maintain a healthy body weight. Supports thyroid function. Increases metabolism and energy. Prevents bacterial, viral, and fungal infections. Helps control diabetes and chronic fatigue. Protects against alcohol damage to the liver and rejuvenates skin and prevents wrinkles. But there is a lot more to coconut, do some further research, you will be amazed.

These are wonderful treats to have throughout the day to help sustain your energy.

Ingredients:

Yields 8 (1 Tbsp bark chips)


1/2 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, softened

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

4 drops banana oil, alcohol-free

1/2 tsp liquid stevia


Preparation:


Soften the coconut oil by placing the coconut container in a bowl filled with hot water.

Do not completely melt it, just warm it to a softened stage.

The reason for keeping the coconut oil at a more soft stage rather than melted is because when the oil is pure liquid all of the added ingredients sink to the bottom of your mold.

With the coconut oil at a soft, thick stage everything will incorporate and suspend in the oil. (see below)




Add the cinnamon, banana oil, and stevia.  Using a whisk, mix everything together until well combined.

Pour into molds (tap the mold on the countertop to even it out) and freeze.

Once frozen, pop them out and store them in an air-tight, freezer-proof container.

Note: these will melt at room temp so it is best to pull one out and eat right away.


Nutritional value per treat (1 Tbsp)

Calories – 119 / Fat – 13.7 g / Carbs 0.4 g / Protein 0.1 g

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



