Orange Cream Coconut Butter Bark (raw, vegan, nut-free, sugar-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/coconut-bark/orange-cream-coconut-butter-bark/



	Orange Cream Coconut Butter Bark

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, sugar-free ~

I know, I know, this is just too easy to even consider it a recipe but when two ingredients come together to create one thing… then it’s a recipe in my book. :)  And if nothing else, it will spark the good ole’ creative juices.

Before I let you go so you can make this delicious treat, I wanted to share a few key points to keep in mind.  Coconut butter is different from coconut oil.  Oil would also work but it won’t be the same.

When you get ready to whisk the ingredients together, make sure that the coconut butter is softened, not melted completely, and have the orange juice at room temperature.  The reason for this is because coconut butter firms up once chilled and if you add a cold liquid to it, it will start to clump.

Should this happen, no biggie, nothing is ruined.  Just bring the coconut butter back to a softened state and then re-blend it.   Pour the bark mixture into any mold(s) and then slide it into the freezer.  You will want to keep it stored in the freezer or fridge.

You can eat this as a treat or use it as a spread. Soften it at room temperature before spreading it on a cracker or piece of bread. Or if you are like me, eat it with a spoon.  Quite heavenly!

Ingredients:


1/2 cup coconut butter, softened

1/2 cup fresh orange juice


Preparation:


In a glass bowl, combine the softened coconut butter and orange juice.  Whisk like crazy. It will seem like it seizes up but most times when you pour into the mold and start tapping the mold on the countertop to work out the air bubbles, the batter will start to appear soft and glossy.

Tip: make sure the orange juice is at room temp before adding it to the coconut butter.

If the batter seizes up and isn’t smooth, warm it back up so it can blend back together really well.




Pour into mold(s) and freeze.  The bark will hold up at room temp as long as it doesn’t get warmer than about 76 degrees (F).


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



