Cookie Dough Candy Bar (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/coconut-bark/cookie-dough-candy-bar-bark/



	Cookie Dough Candy Bar

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, sugar-free ~

I almost feel silly posting such a simple recipe but I needed an excuse so I could post my photos somewhere.  :)  I made this up the other day and I will be darned if I didn’t create yet another love!

I have tried several different coconut butter/manna and my favorite, hands down, is the Artisana brand.  It is made from whole coconut flesh and is considered a whole food, not just oil.

This delicious “cream” melts in your mouth with full coconut flavor and aroma, while giving you whole coconut nutrition: oil, dietary fiber, protein, vitamins, and minerals.  It doesn’t contain any additives—only pure, unadulterated coconut.  And is made using a low-temperature process (below 115° F.) that preserves the vital enzymes, vitamins, and proteins.

This coconut butter is made from 100% certified organic coconut, with no preservatives or other additives, in a facility that does not process any peanut, gluten, or dairy products.

Raw Coconut Butter is soft at above 76° F. and solid at lower temperatures.  You can soften it by putting the jar inside a bowl of warm water; then stir well for a creamy, smooth texture.   This bar will need to be kept in the freezer and eaten right away when removed and trust me, you won’t find that a problem!  Much to my amazement the combination of the coconut butter and cacao nibs instantly reminded me of raw cookie dough.

I used stevia to keep it a sugar-free treat, but you can always add your sweetener of choice and to the level of sweetness in which you like. I hope you enjoy it! Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 8 treats (1 Tbsp measurement) or 1 bar


1/2 cup raw coconut butter

1 Tbsp raw cacao nibs

1/2 tsp liquid stevia


Preparation:


Soften the coconut butter by placing the coconut container in a bowl filled with hot water.

Do not completely melt it, just warm it to a softened stage.

The reason for keeping the coconut butter at a  soft stage rather than melted is when the butter is pure liquid all of the added ingredients sink to the bottom of your mold.  With the coconut butter at a soft, thick stage everything will remain suspended in the oil.




Add the cacao nibs and stevia.  Using a spatula, mix everything together until well combined.

Pour the bark mixture into the selected mold.  I used “Make n’ Mold #0253”.

Freeze for at least 10 minutes.  Once frozen, pop them out and store them in an airtight, freezer-proof container.

Because of the use of coconut butter instead of coconut oil (which could be used) these candies can be left at room temp but will start to melt at warmer temps (76 degrees (F) or higher), so always best to just store in the fridge or freezer.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



