Hazelnut and Orange Coconut Bark (raw, vegan, nut-free, sugar-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/coconut-bark/hazelnut-and-orange-coconut-bark/



	Hazelnut and Orange Coconut Bark

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, sugar-free ~

I created another recipe this morning with…. me in mind!  Sorry, I don’t mean to sound selfish.  Normally, I have you all in mind when I am preparing a recipe, but right now I am focusing on omitting sugars, nuts, and dried fruits from my diet.

Boy, does those narrow things down but even in that, I refuse to lose beauty and flavor!   I realize that this recipe is a wonderful foundation for hundreds of combinations of sweet treats.

So, I encourage you to put your stamp on this recipe.   You could add any nut, dried fruit, spice, no spice, sweetener of choice and so forth.  I will say though, that as is, these sweet treats are wonderful!

When it comes to using extracts, try to do you best in obtaining better quality ones.  You don’t want any fillers or alcohol in them and also aim for organic if you can.  I know this can be a challenge, especially if your only source is local, just do the best you can.  Also, I listed below in the ingredients that you can use either coconut butter or oil or both.  Either way, they taste wonderful.

Ingredients:




1/2 cup raw coconut butter or coconut oil, softened

1 tsp hazelnut extract

1 tsp orange extract

1/2 tsp alcohol-free stevia liquid (I use NuNaturals)


Preparation:


Soften the coconut oil by placing the coconut container in a bowl filled with hot water.

Do not completely melt it, just warm it to a softened stage.

The reason for keeping the coconut oil at a  soft stage rather than melted is when the oil is pure liquid all of the added ingredients sink to the bottom of your mold.  With the coconut oil at a soft, thick stage everything will remain suspended in the oil.




Add the extracts and stevia.  Using a spatula, mix everything together until well combined.  Pour the mixture into the mold and gently tap it to even out the batter.

Freeze for at least 10 minutes.  Once frozen, pop them out and store them in an air-tight, freezer-proof container.

Note: these will melt in room temp so it is best to pull one out and eat right away.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



