Raw Holiday Peppermint Bark
https://nouveauraw.com/coconut-bark/holiday-peppermint-bark/



	Holiday Peppermint Bark

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

As the holidays approach, the invitations to parties start flooding the calendar… along with this comes the challenge of keeping your commitment to healthful eating.  Every event may seem like an excuse to splurge, but the consequence just might be the worst kind of post-party affliction: a food hangover.  I have spent years staring down at the dessert tables fighting my inner demons.

Amazingly,  I have pretty good willpower but that usually equates to me having to go without.  I stand next to my husband and admire his plates of goodies, I even sneak a sniff… allowing the intoxicating smells to embrace me in the holiday festivities.

Two can play this game… instead of going without or throwing in the towel and eating foods that will have an adverse effect on me… I will make safe-for-me to eat treats and always have them available at our dinner functions.  And one of those treats will be my Holiday Peppermint Bark.

I love the rich chocolate flavor and the creamy mouthfeel that it has due to the coconut milk and oil.  Adding a splash of peppermint extract brings me right up to speed in the holiday season department.

For the coconut milk, you can use one of two options.  There is the raw version which is made from Young Thai coconut meat.   Click (here) to learn how.   Secondly, you can use canned full fat coconut milk.  Use organic and BPA-free brands such as this (one).  Shake the can well before using.

Ingredients: Serves: 12


1 cup coconut oil, softened

1/4 cup full fat coconut milk

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 cup raw coconut crystals, finely powdered

1 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp peppermint extract

1/2 tsp sea salt


Preparation:


Have a pan or mold ready.

Place a large zip-lock bag in a quart-sized jar.  This will be used to pipe the mixture into the molds.

Grind the coconut crystals to a fine powder in the Bullet or small spice grinder.  Failure to do so will create a gritty mouth-feel in the bark.

You can prepare this recipe by hand, with a bowl and whisk, electric hand mixer, or a free-standing mixer.

In a small bowl, combine the softened coconut oil and coconut milk.  Turn the mixer on and blend on a medium-high speed until the mixture starts to look glossy.  Don’t let it go too long or it will start to thicken.

Add the cacao, coconut crystals, vanilla, peppermint, and salt.  Mix just long enough for everything to mix together well.

Scrape the mix into the zip-lock bag, snip the corner, and pipe the mix into the molds, placing equal amounts into each one.  Tap gently on the counter and place in the freezer to firm up.

Once solid, pop them out from the mold and store in an airtight container in the fridge or freezer.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



