Pickled Rosemary and Balsamic Figs (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/pickled-rosemary-and-balsamic-figs-raw-vegan-gluten-free/



	Pickled Rosemary and Balsamic Figs

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Dried fruit… is tricky business when you are watching your sugar and carb intake. Because the dehydration process results in a higher concentration of sugar relative to weight, dried figs have a higher level of carbohydrates, mostly in the form of sugar.  But they also are a highly concentrated source of minerals and vitamins.

How do we decide if the pros outweigh the cons?  For me, it’s that gray area that nobody wants to hear about… moderation.   And sometimes it means only enjoying something every once in an awhile.  Right now that is were dried fruit stands for me.  I am watching my sugar intake, regardless of the source, sugar is sugar.

I  looked up the nutritional data for 1 dried fig (8g), it has: 21 calories / 0 fat / 5 carbs  / 1 fiber / o protein. Here’s the trick… when you eat dried figs in combination with foods that are high in protein and/or fat, which have no marked effect on blood sugar,  you reduce the overall effects of dried figs on your blood glucose levels.  I hope that makes sense.  It’s all a learning process for me.

This recipe will keep for about one month in the fridge, so it gives you plenty of time to stretch out the use of it. Already, my head is swimming with recipe ideas. You could chop up a few figs and add them to a high fat / low carb ice cream, or you could dice some up and add to a loaf of bread… I just love the three flavors alone, so together I think they create an amazing explosion of flavor.

Below, I shared the nutritional data for the whole recipe. It will be quite alarming for us carb/sugar watchers, but if we keep in mind what I shared above… I think we will be just fine.   And take note, that the macros below are a combination of the vinegar and figs so if you just use the flavored liquid, you will need to do some configuring of your own.

Nutritional Data:

Whole recipe ~ Calories 735 / Fat 1.9 g / Carb 175 g / Fiber 19.5 g / Protein 6.6 g



Ingredients: 

yields 1 1/2 cups


1 cup dried figs, stems removed

1 1/2 cups balsamic vinegar (not raw)

2 sprigs fresh rosemary

pinch of sea salt

freshly–ground black pepper, to taste


Preparation:


Soak the figs in the balsamic vinegar along with the rosemary, salt, and pepper for at least a day at room temperature. This will allow them ample time to pickle.

The figs will keep for up to a month in the refrigerator.


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



