Vanilla Bean Infused Raw Agave Nectar
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/vanilla-bean-infused-sweetener/



	Vanilla Bean Infused Sweetener

													    
    


				This delicious, do-it-yourself vanilla-infused sweetener is a beautiful addition to have in your kitchen pantry.

It’s a great way to impart a hint of vanilla to your favorite recipes.  You can use your favorite jar or bottle, keeping it for yourself, or sharing it as a gift. You can use this technique with any liquid sweetener: maple syrup, Yacon syrup, or coconut nectar. I will share a bit of info on each of the ones I mentioned.

Is agave an option?

The mother of all-things-controversial in the land of sweeteners. This is one road that I don’t care to travel. Is it raw?  yes…no.  Is it equivalent to corn syrup? yes…no.  Is it a healthier choice? yes…no!  I have seen this sweetener cause some heated debates on websites. I no longer use this sweetener.

When I first started creating raw recipes, agave was the rage; it was the primary sweetener recommended back in the day, but times change, and ingredients change.  I rarely eat foods that are sweetened unless with just stevia.  But that is me, I have omitted sugars from the diet for the past year, and I don’t have much intention to bring them back.  That is my journey.

But my husband, on the other hand, enjoys his sweets, but we like to treat them like “celebratory foods,” not everyday foods. Therefore, I use many different sweeteners that range from dried fruits to honey, coconut syrup, and even maple syrup (to list a few).  I like to limit and alternate them, using them for not only their texture but also for the multidimensional flavors.


Yacon Syrup:

Nutritional Data:


Looking to show some love and support to your colon?  Well, if so, here is some interesting information. “Yacon Syrup is high in prebiotics, such as inulin and fructooligosaccharides (FOS). The concentration of FOS, which are sugars found naturally in many plants, is particularly high in Yacon Syrup. FOS resist breakdown by enzymes in the human digestive system and reach the colon without being digested. Therefore Yacon Syrup is very low in calories (about 20 calories per tablespoon). FOS also acts as a soluble fiber, which increases stool bulk to help prevent and control constipation. (1)  Not all brands are raw, so do your research.  (Here) is a raw brand I have used.


How does it taste?


Yacon tuber which grows in Peru. It is sometimes called the Peruvian Ground Apple. The root can be sliced and eaten raw. It tastes a bit like an apple but sweeter. The tuber is ground down to extract the juice, which is then heated to reduce the moisture content.

The syrup has a lovely caramel taste and is about half as sweet as honey or maple syrup.

To me, raw yacon syrup is the perfect substitute for molasses, although it is not as sweet and has a flavor of its own.


How do I use it?


You can use yacon syrup as you would use honey, agave, stevia, or maple syrup on foods, in recipes, and to sweeten beverages.

I never use yacon syrup all by itself due to the expense. Depending on the quality, it can run up to $30 for 16 oz!


Coconut Nectar:

Nutritional Data:


This nectar contains 17 amino acids, minerals, vitamin C, B vitamins, and has a nearly neutral pH.

It is made from a natural sap that is raw and enzymatically alive!


Does it taste like coconut?


It has a mild, sweet taste that doesn’t resemble coconut at all, even though it is derived from coconut sap.

Though it is claimed to be a low glycemic sweetener, please test your body’s response to it.

It has a VERY thick, syrupy structure, almost molasses-like.  When I pour it into the measuring cup, long strings of sweetness stretch from here to there. :)


How is it made?


For more information about the sap in which the nectar is made, please click (here).


What type of recipes do you use it with?


Many!  There isn’t a right or wrong way to use it.  You have to keep in mind what the desired outcome of the recipe is that you are making.  Think about the flavor, texture, and color.  Coconut Nectar is very dark in color.


Maple Syrup:

Nutritional Data


The components found in maple syrup include water, protein, fat, carbohydrates, and sugars.

In the department of minerals, it contains calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphorus sodium, potassium, and zinc.

Vitamins such as thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, and B6 are also found in maple syrup.

We can’t forget the astounding 54 antioxidants that it has as well.




Regardless of what sweetener I am representing on my site, they all come with a debate which can turn into heated discussions. We all have our own convictions when it comes to the foods that we eat.  For one person, the top priority might be raw for another vegan… for another, it just doesn’t matter.  I am not here to argue, just giving you some basic information so you can start to create your own nutritional foundation.

A Sweet Substitute.


One cup of maple syrup is equal to one cup of honey. They may be similar in sweetness but not in flavor or thickness.

One cup of maple syrup is also equal to one cup of agave.  Those two are in the same category of viscosity, but agave has a more neutral flavor.

As you take a stroll through my site, you will notice that I use all sorts of different sweeteners.  Always feel free to experiment by swapping them with other sweeteners!  My main bit of advice is to always think about the different flavors that it will impart.  If you love the maple flavor but don’t want to use a considerable amount, perhaps you could add a few drops of stevia, which would bump of the sweet level, and then add in a little maple extract to get that strong maple hit.  Just an idea. Also and maybe even more critical. A different sweetener will have a different viscosity and perhaps texture and will most assuredly change the consistency of any recipe.


How is it made?


Just like raw coconut nectar is a product of coconut palm trees, maple syrup is made from the sap of maple trees.  But as I mentioned above, it isn’t raw.

To extract maple syrup, a hole is drilled in the maple tree. Then the sap leaks out and is collected into a container. From there, it is boiled until most of the water evaporates, leaving a thick sugary syrup, which is then filtered to remove impurities. Click (here) to watch a quick video on the process.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

How to Make Vanilla Infused Sweetener

Ingredients:


Liquid sweetener

3 vanilla beans or leftover vanilla pod halves from recipes that used only the seeds


Preparation:



Place vanilla bean pods in a container and fill with the sweetener.

Enjoy this excellent tasting syrup however you see fit!

Store in your pantry and keep adding additional sweetener as needed.


Over time the vanilla beans will start to lose their potency.  You can discard them when this happens and add more beans.  I don’t keep track of how many vanilla pods I add.  In time I keep adding more agave and pods as I use them up.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



