Spicy BBQ Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/spicy-bbq-sauce/



	Spicy BBQ Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Spicy BBQ Sauce is one of my husband’s favorite condiments.  I was amazed today as I was making this just how much the smell of BBQ sauce could transport me back to family picnic gatherings.  I love the power of aromas!

Granted in those days we didn’t know anything about preparing fresh raw dishes, let alone condiments.  I look forward to our next gathering so I can show up with this raw BBQ sauce,  it will be hard for anyone there to guess that it is raw!

Even if they dip their cooked burger, ribs or chicken into it…I will have the satisfaction of adding some nutrients to their meal!  James Russell inspired me to make this but as usual, I made several modifications to accommodate our taste buds!

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups minimum




1 cup sun-dried tomatoes, re-hydrated

3/4 – 1 cup soak water from the tomatoes and dates

2 Tbsp cold pressed olive oil

3 Tbsp coconut aminos or nama shoyu/tamari

2 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

1 tsp smoked paprika

2 tsp ground cumin

1 1/2 tsp chipotle powder

1 tsp garlic powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/8 tsp cayenne (optional)

1/2 cup soft date, re-hydrated (optional)


Preparation:


Re-hydrate the dried tomatoes and dates in one bowl.  Cover with at least 1 cup of water.

The purpose of this step is to soften them for blending.  This is especially helpful if you don’t have a high-powered blender.

Once done soaking, drain but keep the soak water.  Hand-squeeze the excess water from them before adding to the blender.




Blend until smooth.  If the BBQ sauce is too thick add 1 Tbsp of the soak water until it reaches the consistency that you want.

Store in a glass, an airtight sealed container in the fridge for up to 7 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



