Crispy Shoestring Onions (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/crispy-shoestring-onions/



	Crispy Shoestring Onions

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Onions… there are oodles of varieties of onions but I am not about to cover each and every one of them.  I, however, am going to select the top three that I am always faced with when I cruising the produce department.  Yellow, white and red (purple) onions.

Yellow onions have a yellow-brown papery skin on the outside and a white flesh.  These onions really make my eyes water and mess up my makeup, this is due to their higher sulfur content.  We can thank that sulfur content for its pungent flavor and smell as well.  Though we have and sometimes do eat them raw, I almost find them too overwhelming, it just depends on what other ingredients that I am using that help balance out that strong flavor.

White onions have an all-white skin and flesh. They have a slightly milder flavor than the yellow onion and are a great substitute if you’re in need of an onion flavor, but don’t want it to be too powerful.

Red onions are usually my go-to onion for raw dishes.  They are one of most mild, and sweet tasting onions.  They have the purplish-red skin which seeps through all of its layers although it’s flesh is mainly white.

So as you can see… the color of onion you decide to use in this recipe will vary the outcome.   I opted for white… aiming right down the middle of the three in strength.

To select the best onions, look for them to be firm, have a crackly outer skin, and a mild smell. If their scent is overwhelming it’s a good sign the onion is starting to spoil.   Steer clear of those with dark spots or mold.  Onions, in general, store better in a slightly cooler, darker area, although the fridge is not recommended. The onion smell has a tendency to spoil the flavor of other foods in the fridge.

Ingredients:

Yields 1 1/4 cups


1 large white onion

3 Tbsp Tamari

2 Tbsp raw agave nectar or maple syrup


Preparation:


Slice the onions very thin.  I used a mandolin with a 1.5mm blade.   Place in a bowl and toss with the Tamari and agave.

Lay the onions out on the teflex sheet and dry at 115 degrees (F) for 6-8 hours or until dry.

Store in an airtight container on the counter for 5-7 days, maybe longer.  If they soften up, you can dehydrate them again to crisp them up.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



