Summer Savory Italian Salsa (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/summer-savory-italian-salsa/



	Summer Savory Italian Salsa

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This is a simple salsa that I threw together to top some of my favorite raw crackers with. It’s delicious, refreshing and simple to make. Can’t go wrong with that combo.

For this salsa, I used cherry tomatoes basically because that is what I had on hand. You can use regular ones, but I do have to say that I loved the natural sweetness those little orbs of greatness brought to the salsa. Secretly, cherry tomatoes and I have a mischievous history together.

My dad is an amazing gardener.  I have spoken about this several times while sharing my recipes.   He either really loved to grow things or he really missed me and used the whole garden thing as an excuse to get me to come over… because all it ever took was one call…”Amie Sue, the carrots are ready.” Bam! I was there. “Amie Sue, the potatoes are ready.” Bam! I was there.  “Amie Sue, the cabbage is ready.” Bam! I was there.  There was one and only one item that he didn’t call me on and that was his cherry tomatoes.

I LOVE digging, pulling, cutting, and picking any fruit or veggie but cherry tomatoes….lord have mercy buy me a rowboat in the middle of the dessert and I will paddle my way to them!  I can pop cherry tomatoes likes some people pop M&M’s.

Well, one particular year I called my dad to see if the tomatoes were ready. He said they weren’t.  Day after day, I called. They still weren’t ready.  finally, my patience grew weak and I snuck into his greenhouse to try just ONE. Just one! Really…. that WAS my intent… I became possessed… I lost control… I don’t know what came over me… the dog ate them… those were all the excuses that spewed out of my mouth when my dad came out and found my cheeks stuffed full of them like a squirrel gathering his rations for the winter.

He never quite trusted me again from that point on… and rightfully so. lol I wish that I could say that I feel bad about that day, but I don’t, they were that gooooood! Ok, perhaps a tinge of guilt resides in me but I am willing to let that go and move on, there are more “tomatoes in the sea” that need my full attention these days. :)  And if you stop to think about it, that was quite the compliment to the special touch that my dad has in growing things. That’s my story and I am sticking to it!

Ingredients:

Yields 1 1/4 cup


1 heaping cup (173 g) cherry tomatoes, diced

1/4 cup (42 g) diced red onion

1 tsp fresh lime juice

1 tsp balsamic vinegar

2 dashes Himalayan pink salt

3 dashes ground black pepper

1 small cloves garlic, minced

4-6 fresh basil leaves, chopped


Preparation:


Dice the tomatoes and place in a medium-sized bowl (serving dish)… we only need to dirty one dish here.

Add the onions, lime juice, vinegar, salt, pepper, garlic, and basil.  Toss together and serve.  This salsa is even better the next day as the ingredients find time to mingle.

Store leftovers in the fridge for 2-3 days.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



