Blackberry Syrup (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/blackberry-syrup/



	Blackberry Syrup

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This summer while my mom was visiting us we decided to go blackberry picking.  Picking fruit is dangerous for me because once I start, I never want to stop. There is something sooo rewarding in finding those big, plump berries!  If you get the chance to go berry picking here are a few tips to keep in mind.

Don’t wear white clothing or shoes. :)  Or anything that you wouldn’t want to get juice stains on.  If you just had a manicure, I might even go as far as suggesting for you to wear a pair of vinyl or latex gloves.  As you load your bucket, berry after berry… try not to pack it fuller than 5″ high, otherwise, the weight of berries can cause bruising to the lower berries.

Look for blackberries that are deep black with a plump, full feel.  It will pull free from the plant with only a slight tug.  If the berry is red or purple, it’s not ripe yet.  So be sure to leave those unripe berries behind so they can fully mature on the vine… as they won’t continue to ripen once picked.

Not only should you feel great about picking blackberries, you should feel even better about eating them.  :) They are rich in bioflavonoids and Vitamin C.

And whatever you do, don’t curse the juice stains on your clothing or skin… that dark blue color ensures blackberries have one of the highest antioxidant levels of all fruits.  The high tannin content of blackberries provides a number of benefits to help reduce intestinal inflammation, alleviate hemorrhoids and soothe the effects of diarrhea.

If you don’t have access to pick your own fresh berries, you can purchase organic frozen blackberries from your local supermarket. For serving ideas, it would be wonderful drizzled over waffles, fresh fruit, ice creams such as Tahini “Caramel” and Mulberry Ice Cream (which Bob loved the combination). Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 1/2 cups

Using frozen blackberries?:


1 cup frozen blackberries, thawed

3 Medjool dates, pitted

1 tsp lemon juice

3/4 cup of blackberry juice (from the thawed berries)

2 Tbsp raw agave or sweetener if needed


OR

Using fresh blackberries?:


1 1/2 cups  fresh blackberries

3 Medjool dates, pitted

1/4 cup water

1 tsp lemon juice

2 Tbsp raw agave or sweetener if needed


Preparation:


In the blender combine the blackberries, dates, water, lemon juice, and sweetener.  Blend until creamy smooth, roughly 30 seconds.

Pour the syrup into a fine mesh bag (nut bag) and hand squeeze all the juice out into a medium bowl.  Do not skip this step otherwise, you will have a gritty texture in your syrup from the blackberry seeds.

Pour into a jar and chill in the fridge.  Should last about 5-7 days.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



