Watermelon and Basil Salsa (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/watermelon-and-basil-salsa/



	Watermelon and Basil Salsa

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

There isn’t one ingredient in this recipe that isn’t refreshing and perfect for a warm day. This salsa is pure summer freshness in a bowl. Well, I suppose the jalapeño could really warm things up if mishandled but let’s stay on the positive side of things.

I actually created this recipe to pair up with my Watermelon Bliss Coconut Crackers, which worked out to be a wonderful match. This salsa could easily be enjoyed as a side salad.  It pairs well with a spoon too. hehe

Ingredients:

yields 3 1/2 cups


1 1/2 cups (255 g) diced watermelon, seeded

1/2 English cucumber (100 g), diced

1 cup (200 g) diced mango

1/2 cup (80 g) red onion, finely chopped

1/2 jalapeño pepper (10 g), seeded and minced

2 tsp lime zest

2 Tbsp fresh lime juice

2 tsp raw agave

4 fresh basil leaves, finely chopped

1 small garlic clove, minced

1/4 tsp Himalayan salt


Preparation:


Dice the watermelon. cucumber, mango, onion, and jalapeño.  Place in a medium-sized bowl.

Please wear gloves when cutting up the jalapeño.  Their oils are invisible but can be painful.  Don’t touch any other place on your body before washing your hands after handling it.




Zest the lime, then add to the bowl along with the lime juice.  It is best to zest the lime before cutting it.

Add the agave, basil leaves, garlic, and salt.  Gently toss everything, making sure everything gets well coated.

Store left-overs in the fridge for 2-3 days.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Is agave a good choice?  Click (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



