Raw Home-Crafted Mayonnaise
https://nouveauraw.com/condiments/home-crafted-mayonnaise/



	Home-Crafted Mayonnaise

													    
    


				Home-Crafted Mayonnaise


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Mayonnaise, often abbreviated as mayo, is a thick, creamy sauce often used as a condiment.  And a wonderful condiment it is to have on hand!  When kept in an airtight container, it should last up to two weeks.  I like to think of this recipe as a base recipe.  Use as intended, like a mayo, but throughout the week when you want to add a little pizzazz to a dish, add some spices and/or herbs to this and create a whole new taste.

Commercially processed mayo is made from water, eggs, oil and lemon juice.   This recipe is vegan and goes together really quick, outside of having to soak the cashews.  Soaking the cashews is key to this recipe.  Once soaked, they soften and give the perfect cream base when blended.   I use this as a spread on pieces of bread, wraps, and crackers.  But then also giving it new life by turning it into a dip for veggies.

Selecting the best quality of ingredients is always my number one priority.  Using a poor quality can really cause a recipe to unravel. “The quality of olive oil production—especially the stage of pressing—really does make a difference when it comes to health benefits. Recent studies have compared the anti-inflammatory benefits of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) obtained from the first pressing of the oil to the anti-inflammatory benefits of virgin olive oils (non-EVOO) obtained from later pressings.” (source)

But olive oil is not only highly-prized for its health benefits, but also for its wonderful flavor.  I use cold-pressed olive oils in our recipes. Cold-pressing, a chemical-free process using only pressure, produces a higher quality of olive oil which is naturally lower in acidity.

Olive oil has three primary tastes: bitterness, pungency (or pepperiness), and fruitiness. Fruitiness can vary from nutty to grassy.  The intensity of those three flavors can be quite mild or very strong,  depending on how it was processed, and the quality.  Be sure to store your olive oil in a dark and cool spot.  Don’t keep it on the windowsill or in a warm place; this could cause it to become rancid.  So, with saying that, it is a good habit to taste the olive oil before every use.

Ingredients: 




1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 +hours

1/4 cup water

1/4 cup lemon juice

2-3 Medjool dates, pitted

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp onion powder

1/2 tsp garlic powder

1/4 cup cold pressed olive oil  (to be added last)


Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, discard the soak water and place in a high-powered blender.

Add the water, lemon juice, dates, salt, onion powder and garlic powder.  Blend until creamy smooth.

You shouldn’t detect any grit in the mayo.  If you do, keep blending till it is creamy smooth when you run it between your thumb and finger.; this can take 1-3 minutes, depending on the machine.

Puree all ingredients, except oil, in a food processor or blender and blend until smooth.




While continuing to blend and a vortex is created in the mixture, add oil in a steady stream, until emulsified.

Store in a tightly sealed container the fridge for up to 2 weeks.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



