Brown Sugar Cinnamon Sandwich Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/brown-sugar-cinnamon-sandwich-cookies/



	Brown Sugar Cinnamon Sandwich Cookies

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

As I was rolling out the dough for these cookies, my great-grandmother came to mind.  We spent countless hours in the kitchen rolling out dough… whether it be for bread or for cookies. She played a very important role in my life as I was growing up and I feel so blessed that I was able to spend as much time with her as I did.

When she passed, I received a box of trinkets that had belonged to her, and to this day, I still cherish each and every one of them.  Over the years my mother still continues to pass down to me more of my great grandmother’s belongings.  In fact, the china and bible used in this photo belonged to her.

She was a true collector of china, which I now understand where my love and passion for it came from.  Whenever Bob and I out shopping, window gazing, garage saling, thrift store hopping… I am automatically drawn to dish-ware.

Every once in a while I will sit down, carefully opening it on my lap, and thumb through the pages. Almost everyone is imbued with her handwriting, as she jotted down how the verses spoke to her,  some are dog-eared for her ease of reference and some are wrinkled from her fallen tears.

So as you can see food is more than just satisfying hunger or cravings, it is even more than just nutrients… it can also feed the soul.  Never forget to take the time to cherish those precious moments in your life.  They are far more valuable than you realize.

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please be sure to comment below and if you too have a wonderful memory of someone dear to your heart… I would love to hear about it. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 22-24 cookies

Cookies:


1 cup raw almond flour

 1 cup raw cashew flour

1 cup shredded coconut, powdered

2 Tbsp raw coconut crystals

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

 1/4 cup raw agave or maple syrup

2 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 tsp vanilla extract


Chocolate center:


1/4 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 cup maple syrup


Preparation:

Cookies:




In a food processor, fitted with the “s” blade, combine the flours, powdered coconut, coconut crystals, cinnamon, and salt. Pulse together until well mixed.

Don’t have a food processor? In a large mixing bowl combine; almond flour, cashew flour, powdered coconut, coconut crystals, cinnamon, and salt.  I actually ran mine through a sifter to make sure everything was well mixed and fine.




Add the sweetener, coconut oil, and vanilla.  Process until the batter starts to roll into a ball.  If the batter seems too dry, add 1 Tbsp of water.

Don’t have a food processor? In a small bowl stir together the agave, coconut oils, and vanilla extract.  Pour into the dry ingredients and mix the batter together with your hands.




Place the batter on a non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator or parchment paper.

Shape into a ball and place another non-stick sheet on top.

Roll the cookie batter out to about 1/4”.   I used a square cookie cutter.  You can also just score the dough with a long ruler into square shapes.  Whatever you find the easiest.  I chose a cookie cutter to make sure that all the cookies would be the same size.

Repeat the process until all the batter is used up.




Place the cookies on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 16 hours.

As the cookies cool to room temperature they firm up even more.

They are not crunchy hard but very firm.

The dry time always depends on the climate you live in.  High humidity will keep the cookies more on the soft side.





Chocolate center:


Place the coconut oil, cacao, and maple syrup in the blender and blend until it turns smooth and creamy.

To melt the jar of coconut oil in a large bowl of hot water. Make sure the lid is on tight.




Pour into a shallow bowl.

If the mixture is real soupy in texture, place in the fridge for 5-10 minutes.

Needs to be thick enough to hold the shape as you create the cookie sandwich.




Place a dollop of chocolate in the center of one cookie and top with another cookie.

Be careful that you don’t put too much chocolate on the cookie or else it will ooze out all over when you place the top cookie.

Place in the fridge to chill and set up. The inner chocolate won’t get hard but will thicken up nicely.




These should last several weeks in the fridge.


 


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



