Cranberry Pumpkin Spiced Meltaways (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/cranberry-pumpkin-spiced-meltaways/



	Cranberry Pumpkin Spiced Meltaways

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Looking for a quick, easy, delicious, nutritious treat to whip up for the Fall season celebration?  Look no further… these Cranberry Pumpkin Spiced Meltaways will not let you down.

I like to make these up ahead of time and keep them stored in the freezer. That way when expected or unexpected guests show up… I have a wonderful treat to serve to our guests.  You also have the option of dehydrating them or not.  I usually don’t because I like the moistness.

One meltaway will provide 3-4 dainty bites and 2 manly bites.  The perfect size to satisfy the sweet tooth without leaving you feeling guilty or sugared-out.

The key to creating a meltaway texture is all in the flour texture.  I didn’t just toss whole almonds into the food processor.  Instead, I used a fine ground almond flour that is made from almond pulp.  I will provide a link down below on how to make that if you are uncertain.

If you are pressed for time or do not eat 100% raw, you can use store-bought flour.  Do the best you can, where you are in this journey of healthier eating.

Coating these sweet treats in chocolate is an option, they have a wonderful, slightly sweet flavor without.  In the past when I have shared these with others, most people have voted for the chocolate covered ones.  For a little decor, I sprinkled raw coconut crystals on top.  I hope you have fun with this treat and make sure to share them with loved ones. I would love to hear what you think down below in the comment section. Blessings, amie sue


Ingredients: 

Yields 30 (1 Tbsp) cookies

Dry Ingredients:



1  1/2 cups (175 g) fine almond flour or raw almond flour

1  1/2 cups (150 g) dried shredded coconut, unsweetened

1/4 cup (48 g) raw coconut flour

1 tsp (3 g) ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 Tbsp(8 g) pumpkin spice

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup (60 g) finely chopped dried cranberries




Wet Ingredients:


1/4 cup (40 g) melted coconut oil

6 Tbsp (100 g) maple syrup

1/4 cup (40 g)  fresh orange juice

1 Tbsp (7 g) vanilla extract



Optional ~ Decorating with Chocolate Ingredients:


Hardening Chocolate recipe or 1 1/2 cups Vegan Organic Chocolate Chips (melted)


 



Preparation:



In the food processor fitted with the “S” blade, combine the: almond flour, shredded coconut, coconut flour, cinnamon, pumpkin spice, and salt.  Pulse together making sure all the spices get mixed in well.

If you don’t have pumpkin spice, you can make your own by mixing the following ingredients in a jar: Yields 1 tsp: 1/2 tsp cinnamon, 1/4 tsp ground ginger, 1/8 tsp ground allspice or ground cloves, and 1/8 tsp ground nutmeg.

If at all possible, use fine almond flour for the best mouth texture. They are called Meltaways for a reason. :)




Add the coconut oil, maple syrup, orange juice, vanilla, and cranberries. Process until the batter starts to roll into a ball while spinning.

To shape the cookies, I used my 2 tsp cookie scoop.

Place the dough in the palm of your hand and with them cupped, roll the dough into a ball shape. If you roll it with flat hands you will egg up with an egg shape.

Place the balls on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.





Dehydrating (optional):

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour.

This step is to only create a firmer outside and to warm them for eating (if desired, not required).

If you don’t have a dehydrator, place cookies in an oven set to the “warm” setting, with the oven door cracked open, for about an hour.




You are looking for your cookies to be dry on the outside, but still moist on the inside.

Once cookies have cooled, place them in the fridge to chill and set before serving.

Place cookies in the refrigerator for an hour to chill and set before serving. This will result in a soft, moist cookie, almost more like a cookie dough ball.

Cookies with last, well-wrapped, in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.  Or they can be stored in the freezer to extend that.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				You can enjoy them as is… or take them to a whole new level by coating them in chocolate.
				
			
				
			
				
				Once dipped in chocolate, sprinkle raw coconut crystals on top.
				

			
				
			
				
				Enjoy bite after bite…
				
			
				
			
				
				Delish, nutritious, and easy to make.
				

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



