Raw Orange Nut Butter Pinwheel Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/orange-nut-butter-pinwheel-cookies/



	Orange Nut Butter Pinwheel Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free ~

When I create raw recipes, I make sure that they go through a host of taste testers. My “panel” consists of raw foodies, SAD eaters, children, adults and whomever else I can nail down. I have even used our electrician to taste test for me. It took me quite a while to learn/realize that I can’t modify every recipe to fit everyone’s likes and dislikes. But the process has helped me to learn how some flavors are detected more strongly over others.  For example; sweetness…

For many people, sweet is probably the most enjoyable of all the tastes.  And as my taste testers go to work on dissecting my recipes, the flavor of “sweet” gets brought up the most.  A recipe will either be spot on for some, way too sweet for others and then there are those who complain that it isn’t sweet enough.

I first thought that I had to constantly tweak my recipe(s) but then I started to just sit back and really evaluate the situation.  Was it my recipe?  Or was it “that” particular person?  After some research, I quickly came to learn a thing or two about taste tubs.

For those who are used to eating a lot of foods that are high in sugar, they seem to have a harder time identifying sweetness in a food. Meaning their taste buds are so accustomed to it that it requires more just to get it on the radar.  And to be frank that group is growing more and more.

Why? Because these days, sweetness is added to over 90% of packaged foods by way of not-so-natural methods, like the use of high fructose corn syrup. This elevated presence of sweetness in our foods is making us more tolerant to the taste and consequently, means we require more to satisfy the taste.  I can identify to what is being said here.  Not that I eat packaged foods but because I have gone through periods where I had used large quantities of stevia. As time progressed, I found myself needing more and more in order for the sweet level to be reached.   Try stopping sugar for a month to reset your taste buds, you just might be amazed.

With this recipe, you can adjust the sweet level that compliments your liking… but build up slow if you find my measurements too low.  I don’t think you will but just in case.  I used raw agave (have used maple syrup too)  for what I refer to as a bright sweetness. Raw agave doesn’t impart much character into a recipe and that is why I brought in the raw honey.  I love the warm, richness that it gives and it adds a binding texture due to its very very thick texture. Play around and find your balance.  I hope you enjoy these cookies.  They put on quite the presentation.

Ingredients:


Chocolate Banana Wraps

3 cups gluten-free, rolled oats

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup almond or cashew butter

1/2 cup raw agave nectar

1/4 cup raw honey

1/4 cup cold pressed coconut oil

1-2 tsp orange extract


Preparation:


Start by making the Chocolate Banana Wraps. These will take up to 24 hours to dehydrate.

Place the oats and salt in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until it reaches a flour-like texture.

Add the almond butter, agave, honey, coconut oil, and extract. Process until the batter starts to roll into a large ball.

If the batter feels really dry, add a tablespoon of water.




Place a piece of plastic wrap on the counter top and put the ball of cookie dough in the center. Cover with another piece of plastic wrap and roll the dough out so it is a little bit larger than the fruit leather.

Lay the chocolate wrap on top of the dough and trim the extra cookie dough from the edges.

Starting at one end, tuck and roll into a tight log shape.

Wrap in plastic wrap and chill overnight.

It is much easier to slice when thoroughly chilled.




This can also be stored in the freezer for future events!

When ready, slice into 1/2 – 3/4″ cookie slices and enjoy.

The cookies will last longer stored in the fridge for up to 2 weeks and up to 3 months in the freezer.


Oat Information:


Are oats gluten-free?

Are oats raw?

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



