Raw Chocolate Covered Lemon Bombs
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/chocolate-covered-lemon-bombs/



	Chocolate Covered Lemon Bombs

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

These little lemon bombs are just that… one bite is like a bomb that went off in your mouth… a true explosion of flavors!  The bright lemon flavor is present but not so much that it cancels out the sweet coconut that lingers in the background.  Then, there is the chocolate and I really don’t think that I have to explain anything about that, now do I? :)

 

For this recipe, I used almond flour which was created from almond pulp.  This form of almond flour makes is very fine and silky in texture.   I provided a link below on how I made it.  If you choose to make the almond flour from ground almonds, the texture will be more on the crunchy side, just something to be aware of.  It will also add dark flecks of color in the dough, rather than it being all creamy color.

 

I also used raw coconut flour that was store-bought (here).  Do not use any more than indicated, it will be too dry.  If you like you can make your own.  See how (here).

 

I enjoy raw chocolate but in the past, it wasn’t my favorite thing to deal with.  That was when I was using a double broiler.  These days, I am now using my dehydrator for the process and I have now found a new love for it.    That’s not to say that the double broiler version is hard or wrong to use… for me, I just found that it was frustrating.  One frustration was the seizing up of the chocolate and the fear of overheating.
 


I use an Excalibur dehydrator which has a large cavity that allows me to place a bowl right inside.  As you can see in the photo, there is just a thin coating around the lemon bomb.  You can make the chocolate thicker by letting the chocolate cool a bit to a thicker consistency or you can double dip the balls into the chocolate.  Personally, I just wanted a light taste of chocolate since it is dark chocolate and I didn’t want to overpower the lemon within the bomb. Enjoy and be blessed, amie sue


Ingredients:

Yields 60 (1 level Tbsp / 18 g)



2 cups (370 g) cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 1/2 cups (155 g) raw almond flour

1 1/2 cups (120 g) dried shredded coconut, powdered

1/3 cup (40 g) raw coconut flour (bought store)

1/4 tsp (2 g)  Himalayan pink salt


3/4 cup (222 g) maple syrup



1/4 cup (65 g) lemon Juice



2 tsp (8 g) vanilla extract



2 Tbsp (10 g) lemon zest



Hardening chocolate (click here)




Preparation:



Soak the cashews a few hours before starting the recipe.

Once ready to use them be sure to drain and rinse them.

Soaking them will soften them for blending and mouthfeel purposes.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, powdered shredded coconut, coconut flour, and salt.  Process until everything is well incorporated.

I used my Magic Bullet to powder the dried coconut. You can also use a spice grinder or a “Dry” blender carafe.




Add the cashews, maple syrup, lemon juice, vanilla, and zest.  Process until it becomes a thick and cream-like batter.

Tip: Zest the lemon before you juice it, much easier!




With a cookie scoop, scoop out the batter and level it off.

Plop into the palm of your hands and roll into a ball shape and place in a baking pan.

Slide into the fridge or freezer while you prepare the chocolate.




Once the chocolate is made, dip the lemon bombs into it, rolling it around, making sure it is completely coated.

Lift out and tap the fork handle gently on the edge of the bowl to knock off the excess chocolate.




Place the lemon bomb on a piece of wax paper or teflex sheet.   Sprinkle with shredded coconut and leave to harden.

Store in an air-tight container in the fridge or on the countertop for 5-7 days.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



