Lemon-Pistachio Wreaths
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/lemon-pistachio-wreaths/



	Lemon Pistachio Wreaths

													    
    


				 

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I love lemon, I love pistachios, I love cookies, and I love wreaths!  I think it is safe to say that I love these  Lemon-Pistachio Wreath cookies.

For this recipe, I used unsalted roasted pistachios.  If you have salted ones, that’s ok, just hold off on adding the Himalayan salt. Give the dough a taste test to see if it is needed before adding. Finding genuinely raw pistachios is next to impossible to find because they don’t last long in their raw state. They are therefore dried and roasted after harvesting and before shipping.

I had a very kind reader send me a package of raw fresh pistachios from their orchard and much to my shock… they didn’t even taste like any pistachio that I have ever encountered. Unprocessed, the fresh pistachio nuts inside are sweet and moist.

When it comes to roasted pistachios, we look for fresh ones that are still in their shells and have to crack ourselves. How do we find fresh ones? First off, we don’t purchase nuts from the bulk section of the grocery store. If you have to, taste test a few before bagging them up. Nuts go rancid if not properly stored.

While we are at it, let’s crack open the nutritional benefits of pistachios!  A one-ounce serving of pistachios contains approximately 49 kernels, 170 calories, and a variety of different vitamins, minerals, and beneficial phytonutrients. Pistachios are also a great source of vitamin E which is a powerful fat-soluble antioxidant, essential for maintaining the integrity of cell membranes and often recommended for healthy and beautiful skin. Vitamin E also does an excellent job of protecting the skin from UV damage, providing daily defense against premature aging and skin cancer.  So just think,  after a few of these wonderful cookies, you are going to be well on your way to glowing with true beauty and long life!?


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

Did you know that Pistachio trees are wind-pollinated?  One male tree produces enough pollen for 25 nut-bearing females. Female trees produce their first nuts at about age five and can bear fruit for up to 200 years. Fascinating!  These cookies are not too sweet, and the combination of lemon and pistachio taste amazing together. Taking in so much knowledge is making me feel weak, must eat cookies, and restore my energy!  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Dry Ingredients:


2 cups (222 g) raw cashew meal/flour

1/3 cup (40 g)  coconut flakes, shredded

1/4 cup (30 g)  raw coconut flour

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt


Wet Ingredients:


1/3 cup (119 g) raw vanilla infused agave nectar or maple syrup

1/2 soaked vanilla bean, that was in the agave

2 tsp (6 g) vanilla extract

1 tsp (3 g) lemon extract or 5 drops lemon essential oil

2 Tbsp (33 g) fresh lemon juice


Toppings:


1/2 cup shelled unsalted pistachios, coarsely chopped

1/4 – 1/2 cup dried cranberries, rough chopped

White Basic Frosting


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, separately break down the cashews to flour and set them aside.

Try macadamia nuts or almonds with their skins removed if you can’t eat cashews.




If your shredded coconut is not very fine add it to the food processor and process to a fine texture.

Don’t over-process, which will release too much of its natural oil.

Do not use coconut flour in place of the shredded coconut. Coconut flour is very absorbent and will make the cookies too dry. There is a reason that I used 2 forms of coconut in the recipes.




Pulse together the cashew flour, coconut flour, shredded coconut, and salt.

Raw coconut flour ~ I don’t recommend substituting.  This flour helps to absorb moisture.  It is unique in that way.




Add the sweetener, vanilla bean pod, lemon juice, and extracts.  Process until it starts sticking together and forms a ball.  The dough is very sticky.

Instead of lemon extract ~ use a few teaspoons of fresh lemon zest.  Taste test to your liking.

If you don’t have the vanilla-infused agave already made up, add 1 tsp vanilla bean powder. We want the vanilla flavor to be rich but not overwhelming.




Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and place in the freezer for approximately 40 minutes or until chilled through.

This step is very important.  If you attempt to skip it, you will find the dough too sticky to deal with.

You could also place the dough in the fridge overnight if you wanted to do this in phases.




Once chilled, line your work surface with plastic wrap and place the chilled dough ball in the center.

Cover with another piece of plastic, then start to roll the dough out to about 1/4″ thick.

Remove the top plastic and using cookie cutters, cut out your shape(s) and transfer them to the mesh sheet that comes along with your dehydrator.

Repeat the process until all the dough is used up.




Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) in the dehydrator for approximately 10-16 hours or until desired dryness is reached.

Frost, decorate, and eat! If you make the frosting recipe that I link above, it will make more than what is needed. BUT you can freeze the excess.







Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 

Cover your cutting board with plastic wrap, then place the dough in the center and cover

with a top piece of plastic.  Please, don’t skip this step.  If you do, I am not to be held

responsible if your dough sticks to the board, rolling pin, floor, fingers,

or your neighbor’s dog.  :) Been there and done that

and my wish to save you from that hair-pulling experience.

 


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

Roll out to about 1/4″ thickness.  Be sure to roll the dough out evenly.  Remove the top layer

of plastic when you are ready to use your cookie cutters.  Don’t toss the plastic just yet

because you will repeat this process over and over until the dough is used up.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

Having the bottom layer of plastic not only prevents your dough from sticking to the

surface, it also helps when it comes to removing the cookie shape from the surface.  The

least amount of times you have to handle the dough the better.

 

I recommend using a piping bag to put the frosting on with

so you have better control.  Sprinkle the pistachio bits on the frosting and hand-select where you

place the cranberries.  You want to disperse the red around the cookie evenly.

 


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



