Orange Infused Cookie with Creamy Orange Sherbert Frosting - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/frosted-orangesicle-sugar-cookie/



	Frosted Orangesicle Sugar Cookie

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

If you could take your childhood favorite ice cream… Orange Sherbet and transform it into a cookie… would you?  I did just that.

When I was a bouncy, freckle-faced, pigtail wagging little girl my great grandparents used to take me to Dairy Queen every Sunday during the summer.  You know that phrase that people say when you get stuck behind a slow driver…” , hmm, he must be out on a Sunday drive.”  My great-grandfather was the founder of that phrase.

As we would weave our way through the tiny town they lived in, I swear my grandpa drove the speed of a snail. If you blinked twice, you would find yourself on the other side of town, that is how small it was… but somehow grandpa could make the drive through town last an eternity!

I didn’t care. My nose was pressed up against the window, drooling all over the door panel, in anticipation of my treat to come.  I loved those old fashion orange sherbert ice cream bars.

I could tell that I was going to love these cookies from the get-go. Just by mixing the ingredients and smelling the orange essence, I was flooded with such fond memories.  These cookies are firm to the

These cookies are firm to the touch but moist and chewy on the inside.  If you decide not to frost them you can store them in an airtight container with plastic wrap in between the layers of cookies. Once frosted, you will need to store them in single layers only.

Speaking of frosting… I used my favorite go-to white frosting recipe as the base.  That complete recipe will make way more frosting than what is needed for these 12 cookies.  So you have a few options.  One, make more cookies to use up all the frosting. lol Two, cut the frosting recipe in half. And lastly, you could make the frosting but divide it up into several small batches.  Each batch can be flavored and colored differently for other creations.

P.S. I have included a baking option for those of you who don’t own a dehydrator.  You are still light years ahead of purchasing commercially processed cookies.  So I am proud of you for being here.  I do recommend in time that you invest in one as it will open up a whole new culinary world to you. :) I highly recommend the 9 tray Excalibur dehydrator.

I first shared this recipe on Jan. 3rd, 2011.  Since I made a bunch of these for Christmas gifts, I decided to update the photos and touch up my recipe writing skills.  Enjoy and have a blessed day, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 12 (1/4 cup) cookies


3 cups gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup almond butter

1/3 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar

2-4 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 1/2 tsp vanilla extract

1/2 -1 tsp orange extract


Orange Sherbert Frosting: 


White frosting recipe

Orange extract

Natural orange food coloring


Preparation:

Cookie:


Place the dried oats and salt in the food processor and process until it becomes a fine powder.

Add the almond butter, sweeteners, coconut oil, and extracts.  Process until it starts to form a ball as it spins around the food processor.

To melt the coconut oil – the best way to melt your coconut oil is to boil some water in your tea kettle.  Set the coconut oil jar in a large bowl and pour the hot water over it.  It will take less than 5 minutes to get some of it melted.

You may use 2-4 Tbsp of coconut all depending on how moist the almond butter is that you are using.  Start with two and build up.  The dough should form a ball as it spins in the food processor and has a little glossy look to it.

Before you get the dough to processed, taste to see if you want more orange extract flavor added.  It will be too hard to disperse if the dough is completely mixed.




With a 1/4 cup cookie scoop, level off a scoop of batter and place on a non-stick surface.  Flatten each ball of batter with the palm of your hands.  Do this until all the batter is used up.

Transfer to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate them at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for up to 8 hours.  They won’t become crispy. But the outsides will firm up.

Stored in an airtight container the frosting cookies will last at least 3-4 days.  Maybe longer.


Frosting:


After making the frosting, place it in the fridge for about 1 hour to start to firm up.  Normally, I have the frosting get really firm before frosting, but this time I used the frosting when it was a little bit runny.  I spooned 1 Tbsp of frosting onto the center of the cookie and let it spread naturally.

This caused the frosting to have a shiny surface which I really liked the look of.




Once frosted enjoy or store in an airtight container for 1-2 days.  The frosting will darken the longer it sits out.  You can place the cookies in the fridge but they do get a little sticky.


Baking option:


Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place the cookies at least 1” apart.  These cookies won’t flatten while they cook, you will need to help them by slightly flattening them with your fingers.

Bake for about 15 minutes.  Often times ovens run at different temperatures regardless of what the dial says so please check in on the cookies about every 5 minutes for the first batch. Document the time it takes for the next tray or batch.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Raw honey isn’t vegan but I still use now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Learn how to make your own raw almond butter by clicking (here).

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





If you don’t have any oranges to zest for the topping, use
shredded coconut.



I packaged single cookies for gift giving.  It’s a great way to
present one cookie and not feel weird out it. lol


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



