Ginger and Cranberry Meltaways
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/ginger-and-cranberry-truffles/



	Ginger and Cranberry Truffles

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Little balls of joy, yummy, and ooooh so good for you! Ginger is used widely in Ayurveda and is believed to be an entire medicine chest in itself.

It is recommended that everyone should eat fresh ginger just before lunch and dinner to enhance digestion.  Not only does ginger stoke the digestive fire, but it also improves assimilation and transportation of nutrients to body tissues, and clears the microcirculatory channels of the body.

If you can eat raw ginger, a good way to take it is to dip two or three thin slices of ginger in a little salt and lime juice prior to eating.  But if you are new to the taste of ginger, you can start right here with this special treat! Ah, the sacrifices we must make in the name of health.  hehe

I for one have found a new love for this spice and can now enjoy it on a regular basis.  If the health benefits of ginger are not enough to lure you in, let’s look at the mighty cranberry!  Cranberries have moderate levels of Vitamin C, dietary fiber, and manganese, as well as other essential micronutrients.

It is also known to help prevent urinary problems, especially bacterial infections.  They are an excellent source of polyphenol antioxidants, beneficial to the cardiovascular system and immune system, and having anti-cancer properties. So there you have it,  oodles of health benefits all tucked into a sweet little ball.   Many blessings and enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields 24 (1 Tbsp batter per truffle)



1  1/2 cups (155 g)  almond flour or raw almond flour

1  1/2 cups (135 g) dried shredded coconut, unsweetened

2 Tbsp (17 g)  raw coconut flour

1/4 tsp (2 g)  Himalayan pink salt

1 1/2 (4 g) tsp allspice

2 tsp (10 g) ground ginger






6 Tbsp (91 g) maple syrup

10 drops (<1 g)  liquid stevia

1 Tbsp (12 g) fresh lemon juice

2 tsp (7 g)  vanilla extract

1/4 cup (50) melted coconut oil

1/2 cup (80 g) dried cranberries

Extra powdered dried coconut




Preparation:



In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, dried coconut, coconut flour, salt, allspice, and ginger. Process to mix everything together.

Raw coconut flour can be replaced with more almond flour if you don’t have any. BUT don’t replace the almond flour with coconut flour. Coconut flour absorbs moisture and will create a VERY dry treat.

Allspice ~ make your own. Measure out 1 tsp of cinnamon, 2 tsp of ginger, 1/2 tsp of cloves.  Mix well.

I add liquid stevia so that I can reduce the amount of maple syrup needed.   It helps to brighten the sweet flavors of the truffles.




Add to the food processor, maple syrup, stevia, lemon juice, vanilla, and coconut oil. Process until well mixed.

Add the cranberries and continue to process until the dough starts to roll around into a ball while the food processor is running.

To shape the truffles, I used my 1 Tbsp cookie scoop.

I then took 6 Tbsp of shredded coconut and further ground it down in my Bullet so I could roll the truffles in it.

Place truffles in the refrigerator for an hour to chill and set before serving.  This will result in a soft, moist truffle, almost more like a cookie dough ball.

Store in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. Or you can freeze them for an extended period of time.





 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



