Christmas Butter Spritz Cookie
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/christmas-butter-spritz-cookie/



	Christmas Butter Spritz Cookie

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Christmas Butter Spritz Cookies are an easy way to add variety to a tray of cookies. A cookie press lets you change disks to produce many different shapes. From there, you can dress them up any way you see fit, or leave them plain giving them a simple flare of elegance.

If you don’t use a cookie press, that’s ok… you can roll the dough out and use cookie stamps or cookie cutters. Work with what you have.

Typically spritzer cookies are baked and crunchy… my raw version provides more of a semi-soft, chewy texture.  So let go of expectations and enjoy them for the delight in which they are.

During the hustle and bustle of the holidays, you can simplify your holiday baking workload by hosting a cookie swap.

Invite a group of friends, and have each person make enough of one kind of cookie to share.  At the party, sample the treats, then trade and package them in appealing assortments. Everyone leaves with finished gifts and plenty of new recipes. And what a wonderful way to share healthy raw cookies that will warm the heart and fill the tummy.

 How to Host a Cookie Exchange

Step 1 — Send out invitations 3-4 weeks in advance.

Seven to ten people are ideal.  Instruct your guests to bring a cookie to share, recipe cards, and pretty wrapping supplies for packaging up cookies to take home.

Step 2 — Choose cookies to bring.

Ask each person to bring a dozen cookies for each person attending, plus an extra dozen for sampling.  This will assure that each person will go home with several dozen cookies that they can share and give as gifts.   You can assign a particular cookie to the guests or just allow them to bring their “family favorite”…  there tends to be much more joy in that plus you usually learn some neat stories.

Step 3 — Create a display.

Have folding tent cards ready along with extra pens.  That way each guest can write down what the name of their cookie is.  It might be a good idea to have them make a special note on the card, such as; gluten-free, contains nuts, etc.   Create a display table with plates at different heights to further make the arrangement even more enticing.   I will usually place a table-cloth on the table, stagger different sized boxes on top and then drape the second tablecloth over them.

Step 4 — Create a packaging station.

Each guest brings wrapping paper, boxes, tins, ribbon, plastic wrap, gift tags, etc.  It’s a good idea to provide some extra white boxes, tape, and ribbon for those who may forget or not be able to bring much.

Step 5 — Enjoy the feast!

Have each guest place a plate of cookies on the table (this is that extra dozen I was talking about). Place the stack of recipes near each cookie.  Once the table is set, let the party begin!  Sample cookies, sip tea, laugh, and cherish the time that you have with your loved ones.  When it’s time to trade, set out the remaining cookies.  Have each person browse the table and take their share of cookies and recipe cards.  Take all their goodies to the packaging table and have them wrap up their cookies.  Each person will leave with joy in their heart, a full belly, and warm memories!

Now it’s time to get busy making your raw Christmas Butter Spritz Cookie.  One quick thing before I let you go… I used butter flavoring in this recipe and if you are against using that you can substitute macadamia nuts for the cashews, since they can have a slight undertone of a buttery flavor, but it won’t be as strong. Enjoy and many blessings.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Ingredients:

Yields 32 cookies (using a cookie press)


1 cup fine almond flour

1 cup raw cashew flour

1/3 cup coconut flakes, powdered

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/3 cup maple syrup

1/2  vanilla bean, seeds only

1/2 tsp butter flavor or 2 tsp vanilla extract


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, cashew flour, powdered coconut, and salt.

It is best to use really fine flours so they go through the cookie press nice and smooth.

I used almond flour made from white almond pulp.  If you just grind almonds down to a flour, you will have brown specks in the dough.

You can use all almond flour or all cashew flour instead of the mix.




Add the sweetener of choice, vanilla bean seeds, and extracts.  Process until it starts sticking together and forms a ball.

Keep in mind that if you use a dark liquid sweetener, it will make the cookies more of a tan color.




Place the dough in the cookie press tube and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.  It’s very easy.

Press the cookies out onto a non-stick sheet.

If you don’t have a cookie press, roll the dough out and use cookie stamps or cookie cutters.




Transfer the cookies to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

If they seem too sticky to move, start the drying process with them on the non-stick sheet, but partway through once dry enough, transfer to the mesh sheet.  This will allow the air to better circulate around the cookies.




Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 6-10 hours. Or until desired dryness is reached.

They should be dry on the outside with a slight chewy on the inside.




These will keep up to 2 weeks in a sealed container or can be frozen for 1-3 months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



