Buttery Shortbread Tea Sandwich Cookie with Sour Cherry Jam
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/butter-cookie-with-cherry-jam-sandwich/



	Buttery Shortbread Tea Cookie with Sour Cherry Jam

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free ~

The shortbread name can be misleading to those who don’t know the cookie.  Is it a bread? A cake? A biscuit? Actually, it’s all of these things.   And did you know that January 6th of each year is National Shortbread Day?

Mark your calendars and get your Hallmark greeting cards ready, but let’s start the celebration early by making them now!  I think these tea sandwich cookies would be a delightful treat to serve to friends and family.

A typical baked recipe consists of 2 cups butter, 1 cup packed brown sugar, and 4 1/2 cups all-purpose flour. Wowza!

You won’t find any of those ingredients in these cookies. For the shape, I used the Wilton Brownie Dual Cutter. You don’t have to own this mighty fine cutter to make this recipe.  Any rectangular cookie cutter would do or even a paring knife would work with some free-hand practice. The size of the cutter you choose will affect the amount this recipe yields.

Keep in mind that raw treats are very rich and filling so don’t make them too big.  I also used butter flavoring in this recipe.  If you are against using this (not raw) you can substitute the cashews for macadamia nuts since they can have a slight undertone of a buttery flavor.

To create the look and texture that I did, you need to use a fine almond flour. I included a link on how to make a fine powder from almond pulp.  If you use whole ground almonds the texture will be totally different.   I hope you enjoy this wonderful recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 24 cookies or 12 sandwiches

Cookie dough:


1 cup almond flour or raw fine, almond flour

1 cup raw cashew flour

1/3 cup coconut flakes, shredded

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/3 cup maple syrup

1/2 vanilla bean, seeds only

1/2 tsp butter flavor or 1 tsp vanilla extract



Jam:



1 cup dried cherries

1 cup water

1 1/2 Tbsp chia seeds

1 Tbsp raw honey




Preparation:

Cookies:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, grind the coconut down to a flour.  Add the almond flour, cashew flour, and salt.  Pulse just long enough to mix the ingredients.

If you don’t have cashews, use all almond flour.




Add the sweetener, vanilla bean seeds, and extract.  Process until it starts sticking together and forms a ball as the food processor is spinning.

Roll the dough out 1/4” thickness between two pieces of plastic wrap.

Remove the top sheet of plastic wrap and press the cookie cutter into the dough.

Transfer the cookie to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Place the bottom of the cookie facing up.  I want the top of the cookie (which is nice and perfectly smooth) to lay face down on the mesh screen so that the pattern of the mesh will leave an impression on the cookie. Or you can use the pastry tool that I used which can be seen in the photo below.  I bought it at a kitchen store.

To prevent the dough from sticking in the cookie-cutter, wet it every so often. This will make life easier.




Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 12-14 hours.  During this time, make the sour cherry jam.


Jam:


Soak the dried cherries in 1 cup of water for 15 minutes.

Place the cherries, half of the soak water, chia seeds, and honey into the food processor, and process until the cherries are broken down.

I tried doing this step in my blender, I don’t recommend that, there isn’t enough volume to spin it around.

Pour the jam into a zip-lock bag and set it in the fridge till you are ready to pipe it on the shortbread.




After the shortbread has dried for about 14 hours, remove the jam Zip-lock bag from the fridge.

Snip the lower corner off of the bag so you can use it as a piping bag.

Pipe the jam onto half of the shortbreads,  the other half will be for the top.




Slide the tray back into the dehydrator and continue drying for about 12 more hours.

Remove and place the top cookie on the jam, making a sandwich.  Now pierce the top cookie with a fork to give it that shortbread trademark.

Allow to cool and enjoy!  These will last approx. 14 days, even longer in the freezer.  Keep in a sealed container in a single layer.






		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



