Gingerbread Cookies - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/frosted-gingerbread-cookie/



	Frosted Gingerbread Cookie

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

It’s that time of year.  My favorite holiday time, Christmas. Along

with nonstop Christmas music, the house all decorated in reds, creams and golds, the scent of pine in the air, and the coziness of love that surrounds us,  just makes everything perfect.

But wait,  we need gingerbread cookies to get the Christmas un-baking in gear!  This was a tough recipe to conquer.  It took 3 different recipes to finally get this one. I tried others recipes but I just wasn’t getting that particular flavor that I was desiring so I went to the drawing board and created my own.

The beauty of this batter is that you can roll it out and use cookie cutters with it or you can just use a cookie scoop and plop them on the dehydrator trays.  The batter mixture won’t dehydrate to a crisp, snap of a cookie but if you roll them out thin they will come out firm and chewy.  They were a huge hit with the family.

P.S. I have included a baking option for those of you who don’t own a dehydrator.  You are still light years ahead of purchasing commercially processed cookies.  So I am proud of you for being here.  I do recommend in time that you invest in one as it will open up a whole new culinary world to you. :) I highly recommend the 9 tray Excalibur dehydrator.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 14 (1/4 cup each) cookies


3 cups gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated (divided)

1 1/2 Tbs ground Ceylon cinnamon

2 1/2 tsp Ground Ginger

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp ground nutmeg

1 tsp ground cloves

1 cup almond butter

1/2 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar for vegan

1/4 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 1/2 tsp vanilla extract

Whipped Vanilla Coconut Cream Frosting


Preparation:


Place the 1 cup of oats in the food processor with the cinnamon, ginger, salt, nutmeg, and cloves. Process until it becomes a fine powder.

Add the remaining 2 cups of oats, sweeteners, coconut oil, and vanilla.  Process until well incorporated.

With a 1/4 cup cookie scoop, place the cookies on a non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  Slightly flatten.

You can use parchment paper, but not wax.  Wax paper sticks.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for approx. 10 hrs.

This cookie won’t dry hard and crispy but it will firm up some after it cools down.

Allow the cookies to cool, then frost using the coconut cream frosting.

I sprinkled raw coconut sugar crystals on top for decorating.


Baking option:


Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place the cookies at least 1” apart.  These cookies won’t flatten while they cook, you will need to help them by slightly flattening them with your fingers.

Bake for about 15 minutes.  Often times ovens run at different temperatures regardless of what the dial says so please check in on the cookies about every 5 minutes for the first batch. Document the time it takes for the next tray or batch.

We loved the look and texture of the baked version.  It created a very dry and crunchy cookie whereas the raw version is very soft and chewy.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Raw Coconut Crystals add a “brown sugar” flavor to a recipe.  Read about it (here).

Raw honey isn’t vegan but I still use now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Learn how to make your own raw almond butter by clicking (here).

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




They taste amazing all on their own as well.




Raw version:



Baked version:


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



