Chocolate Spiralina Power Balls
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/chocolate-spirulina-power-balls/



	Chocolate Spirulina Power Balls

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The Chocolate Spirulina Power Ball is a nutrition bomb disguised in a sweet, chocolaty, truffle-like treat. This is one intense power ball. And when I speak of intense I am referring to the “green” taste of this treat.

Personally, I like these little guys, but it takes a real lover of “greens” to adventure into this one.  I almost didn’t post for fear that no one would try it…but there a few of us out there that do in fact enjoy to tastes of greens.

My mother for instance… She loves green juices without any sweeteners or fruits to tone it down.  This coming from a woman who spent her life on Reese’s candy bars and Pepsi.

What makes this a Powder Ball?

The umph behind this power ball comes from the fine powder of spirulina. There are so many amazing health benefits found in this one ingredient alone. First of all, we need to understand what it is within it that makes it so powerful.

There is a pigment found in spirulina called phycocyanin. The major role of phycocyanin is its anti-inflammatory activity and once I learned that… I just knew that this green powder had to be a part of my life.  If you want to learn more about this special component, click (here).

There is more to Spirulina than just what I briefly touched upon above,  is known to have nutritional advantages of high-quality protein content and other components such as vitamins; minerals, and essential fatty acids including γ -linolenic acid, and β-carotene.

Do take note that while preparing this recipe,  there is a good chance that you will get green powder all over… I did. :)  By the time I was done mixing the batter it was as thick as thick can be, and it was so dark green that it appeared to almost be black.  I hope that you are intrigued enough to give this recipe a try. If you do, please let me know below. I would love to hear from you. Blessings, amie sue


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Ingredients:


1 1/4 cup  raw almond flour

1/2 cup raw cacao powder

3 Tbsp spirulina powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1 cup raisins

1/2 cup chocolate chips (optional)

1/4 cup finely ground coconut, unsweetened or cacao powder


Preparation:

Creating the batter:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, cacao powder, spirulina, and salt.  Process until well mixed.

It’s important that all the dry ingredients are well intermixed.  You don’t want to bit into a globe of pure Spirulina or cacao.

Salt has been added to enhance the chocolate flavor and sweetness.




Add the sweetener and raisins. Process to a thick batter.

Handwork in the chocolate chips.

This batter is very thick and sticky.  I recommend chilling them in the fridge prior to attempting in making cookie shapes or balls out of them.




Place the finely shredded coconut in a bowl. Working with a teaspoon of dough at a time, roll into small balls and coat with the coconut nut.


To dehydrate or not:


Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 4-6 hours.

Store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to several weeks.





Freeze:


Skip the dehydrating process and store them in the freezer for quick snacking.

Store for up to 1 month for taste and freshness.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



