Moist and Chewy Banana Oatmeal Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/moist-and-chewy-banana-oatmeal-cookies/



	Moist and Chewy Banana Oatmeal Cookies

													    
    


				 raw / vegan / gluten-free

I love strolling down memory lane; it does my heart good, especially when it comes to looking through all my recipes. I created this recipe for Christmas of 2010.  Was that really seven years ago?

Seriously, it boggles my mind to see how quickly the days, weeks, and years go by.  Thankfully, the logging of my recipes here on Nouveauraw.com has become a sort of scrapbook of my life over the past decade.

As I looked at this recipe, I decided it was time to give it an “update… updo… remake… overhaul”  Not only have my photography skills developed but so has my recipe writing.  I am truly happy that we continue to learn and grow with each passing day.

I am also trying to work through every recipe on the site, remaking it, and documenting the weight of each ingredient. I have a lot of requests for this, but like I just said… it means I have to remake the recipe and weigh each ingredient, so needless to say, the process is slow. And poor… poor… poor… Bob, he has to eat all these recipes! haha

To help give the cookie a lighter texture, I used almond pulp, which is a by-product of making almond milk. So nothing goes to waste. If you don’t have almond pulp on hand, you can use ground almonds (or any other nut), but it will change the texture of the batter and the flavor.

To keep this cookie lower in sugars I used bananas and raisins as the main sweeteners. That doesn’t mean that they are sugar-free, fruit sugars are sugars too. It’s always good to monitor your intake and see how your body feels. I do recommend using ripe bananas that way they will be a little sweeter and a bit easier to digest. You may not know this, but unripe bananas are more starchy, and many people don’t digest them well.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

These cookies are so wonderful enjoyed straight out of the dehydrator! Nothing beats warm cookies and a tall glass of almond milk. :) So with all that being said, I think it’s time to scuttle into the kitchen and get busy. We have dishes to dirty, raw batters to nibble on, and dishes to wash (that part is optional hehe). I hope you enjoy this simple recipe. Many blessings, amie sue



Ingredients:

yields 20 (1/4 cup / 65 g) per cookie


2 cups (230 g) gluten-free, rolled oats

2 cups (435 g) packed, moist almond pulp

1/2 tsp (3 g)  Himalayan pink salt

3 medium (439 g) ripe bananas

1/2 cups (130 g)  raw almond butter

1 cup (135 g) raisins

1 Tbsp (24 g) maple syrup


Preparation:


In the food processor fitted with the  “S” blade, combine the oats and salt. Process until the oats are broken down.

Add the almond pulp, bananas, almond butter, and sweetener. Process until the creates a smooth batter.

Add the raisins and just pulse-mix them in.

As you can see, these cookies are basically fruit sweetened. You might not need the maple syrup so taste test the batter before adding.




Using a 1/4 cup measurement (cookie scoop), place the dough on the non-stick sheets that come with the dehydrator.

They will spread some. On my 14×14 Excalibur trays, I did 3 across, equaling 9 cookies per tray.

Once you have all the cookies in place, pick up the dehydrator tray. Tap the tray a few times on the counter.

Set the tray down, rotate it, pick and tap again. Do this on all sides.

This causes the cookies to flatten slightly, and they look more like baked cookies.

If you want, you can put additional raisins on top of the cookie.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour and then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16 hours.

The time frame depends on how much you like them dried out.

Halfway through the dry time, remove them, and place them on the mesh sheet. Return for the rest of the dry time. This will help the air circulate all the way around the cookie.





The Institute of Culinary Ingredients:


Learn how to make your own raw almond butter by clicking (here).

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment.


Enjoy with Fresh Almond Milk

 

I don’t want to… but if I have to… lol

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



