Beta-Carotene Rich Lunch
https://nouveauraw.com/cooked/plates-of-inspiration-cooked/beta-carotene-rich-lunch-plates-of-inspiration/



	Beta-Carotene Rich Lunch | Plates of Inspiration

													    
    


				Today was another fun-filled day working in the kitchen. I was in the zone, and when I get in the zone, it’s hard for me to slow down enough to eat a meal. BUT I am working on that. Self-care has always been at the bottom of the list, but step by step, I am climbing the ladder of self-love, and one way I can do that is through nourishing my body with nutrient-dense food. Yesterday, I batch cooked for the week. So lunch was filled with leftovers–I had a bowl of my End of the Week Soup, steamed carrots, and kombucha squash.



I must say that I love veggies of all hues of color, but today, unconsciously, I plated myself nothing but orange. I guess my body was telling me something. Orange vegetables contain zeaxanthin, flavonoids, lycopene, potassium, vitamin C, and beta-carotene, which is vitamin A. The benefits includ:


Aids in eye health and reduces the risk of macular degeneration of the eye–No issues there.

Reduces the risk of prostate cancer–Hmm, nope.

Lowers blood pressure–Nope, my BP is spot on.

Lowers LDL cholesterol (the bad cholesterol)–My cholesterol is good.

Promotes healthy joints —I’ll take a little of that.

Promotes collagen formation–Oh, man, dose me up!

Fights harmful free radicals in the body–I am thankful for that.

Encourages pH balance of the body–Mine should be fine, but one hard to tell what’s going on under the hood.

Boosts immune system–Perfect timing for that! (COVID-19)

Builds healthier bones by working with calcium and magnesium–We can all benefit from this.


Actually, as I was typing this, I reflected on what I ate today. Breakfast was a beige meal: steel-cut oats with bananas; and dinner was primarily green: broccoli, green beans, and peas. I was color-blocking today, and I didn’t even realize it.  Regardless, I was satiated, loved every bite, and felt light and full of energy. What was on your plate today? Share down below in the comments. Blessings and health, amie sue

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



