Banana Bread Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/banana-bread-cookies/



	Banana Bread Cookies

													    
    


				

 

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

These Banana Bread Cookies are soft, moist, and full of banana flavor and warm nibbles of walnuts.  Pure bliss for any banana-bread-aholic.  Since I am one myself, I made these cookies extra big and as a result, they give me an extra big smile when I bite into them.

The exterior of the cookie is dry and firm… but the inside, oh the inside… it is filled with the pillowy goodness of mashed bananas, the earthiness of oats, and the rich buttery notes of walnuts… all pulled together with the thick viscosity of raw honey.

Using the right honey is just as important taste-wise as it is health-wise. I know that those honey bear containers that you see in the store are adorable, but this is not the honey for you.  You want to select local, raw honey that is super thick and fragrant. Good honey is just as layered and complex as a bar of quality chocolate or rich olive oil and is just as deserving of our appreciation.

If you are a frequent-recipe-reader of Nouveau Raw… you know that I love to stress how important it is to use top-quality ingredients.  I can’t let an opportunity pass to share this information because it is key to the success of a recipe.  So with that being said… I am going to remind you to only use ripe bananas for this recipe.  It will not only make it easier on your digestive system but it will also bump up the flavor profile. Unripe bananas will be starchy, dry, and flavorless. (in my humble banana opinion)

If I were you, I would hook your dehydrator to your house heating vent system. That way you can pump the amazing aroma of “baking” banana bread cookies throughout your home.  I have learned that when I run the dehydrator throughout the night, I don’t sleep soundly.  I always wake up several times to the rich aromas, worrying that I left the oven on. lol Plus, it makes me wake up hungry!   Well, it’s time to stop sitting around and reading all of this.  Stand up, stretch your legs, turn on some good music and make that kitchen of yours come alive!  Enjoy and please keep in touch below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:



Yields 17 (1/2 cup cookies)


4 cups raw, gluten-free oats, soaked

2 cups raw chopped walnuts, soaked

2 cups fresh, diced banana slices

1 cup raisins



2 large ripe mashed banana

1/3 cup raw honey or maple syrup

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp stevia NuNaturals liquid

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

Raw coconut crystals, for topping


Preparation:


After soaking the oats, drain and discard the soak water.  Rinse under cool water for 2 minutes. Set aside.

Drain and discard the soak water from the walnuts and give them a final rinse before adding to the bowl. Set aside.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the 2 large bananas, sweetener, cinnamon, stevia, vanilla, and salt.  Process until well blended.

Now add the oats, walnuts, and raisins. Process until it starts to get a smoother texture.  Don’t over process while making a solid colored paste.

Add the sliced bananas and just pulse enough time to incorporate them but not to totally lose their chunky texture.

With a 1/2 cup measurement, place the cookies on the non-stick sheets that comes with the dehydrator.

Dust the tops of the cookies with raw coconut crystals.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry for roughly 16 hrs or until they reach the desired moistness/dryness.

Partway into the drying process, once it starts to dry, transfer the cookies to the mesh screens and complete the drying process, this will speed up the dry time.

 Taste test them along the way… tough job, BUT someone has to do it!




Store in an airtight sealed container.  To extend the shelf life you can store it in the fridge or freezer.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



