Tigernut Flour and Oat Wraps
https://nouveauraw.com/cooked/wraps-tortillas/tigernut-flour-and-oat-wraps-cooked-oil-free/



	Tigernut Flour and Oat Wraps | Cooked | Oil-Free

													    
    


				Today, I am bringing to you a gluten-free, vegan, nut-free, seed-free, oil-free wrap. These wraps are relatively neutral in flavor, making them perfect for any filling, sweet or savory. To date, these wraps are the most flexible, pliable ones that I have made. If you’re not careful, you might find yourself playing around with them before they ever hit your plate — speaking from experience.



When it comes to creating recipes, there is always a little science that goes on in the background, especially when it comes to cooking or baking gluten-free “bread-like” wraps. Gluten-free flours are a blessing for so many people who suffer from gluten allergens, but most of these flours require being paired up with another flour to get those gluten-protein-characteristics.  Today, I used the combo of tigernut flour and oats. Let’s see what I came up with.

Why I Used Tigernut Flour an d Oats

Tigernut Flour


Texture-wise, it is somewhat grainy, similar to almond flour.

It has a nutty, somewhat buttery, sweet flavor.

It’s a great source of Resistant Starch (RS), which is a prebiotic fiber that resists digestion and fuels our healthful probiotic bacteria. You can learn more about RS (here).

Tigernut flour is super allergy-friendly as it is gluten-free, nut-free, and grain-free. In fact, it is actually a small root vegetable that originated in Africa. You can read more about it (here).

It tends to work well in combination with other flours and starches such as coconut flour, almond flour, gluten-free oats, and arrowroot or potato starch. Hence why I added oats to this recipe.


Gluten-Free Rolled Oats


Due to the natural starches found in oats, once water is added, it creates a binding effect that helps with these wraps.

They are an abundant source of complex carbohydrates and water-soluble fiber (produces a feeling of satiety), as well as group B vitamins, omega 6 fatty acids, and some minerals, and trace elements such as zinc, copper, or manganese.

When purchasing rolled oats, make sure that the package reads “gluten-free” to ensure that they haven’t been cross-contaminated with other gluten-containing grains.


I am showing you just how flexible this wrap is!

Techniques and Tips


These wraps don’t require any rolling or shaping; you pour the batter directly on to the pan and let the magic unfold (spread). Typically, when making wraps, I like to use my griddle, but that won’t work for these since you need to lift and tilt the pan back and forth for the batter to spread evenly.

These wraps don’t brown much while cooking; instead, they go from cream to tan. Because of this, you want to make sure that you don’t overcook them. I noticed that if they are cooking too long on one side, the edges turn more of a white color, which leads to crispier edges, which can interfere with the flexibility.

Why do some of your wraps recipes puff up while others (like these) don’t? Oat flour puffs up under the right circumstances; it just depends on what other ingredients it is paired with.  If combined with heavier flours or sticky ingredients like bananas, it may need a leavening agent, such as baking powder, to help it puff up, yielding a lighter texture.  In this case, I used equal measurements of tigernut flour and rolled oats (which produced less volume than the tigernut flour, since I used oats in their whole form). Since it isn’t the dominant flour, the wraps don’t puff up while baking. I hope that makes sense.

Feel free to use different spices or herbs. If you want to use these wraps in a sweet application, omit the savory spices, and add a little sweetener to them.


Well, I think I will “wrap” this up. I hope you enjoy these wraps. Please leave a comment below and have a blessed day, amie sue



Ingredients

Yields 7 (6″ – 1/3 cup measurement per wrap)


1 1/2 cups water

3/4 cup gluten-free rolled oats

3/4 cup tigernut flour

1/2 tsp onion powder

1/4 tsp garlic powder

1/2 tsp sea salt


Preparation


In the blender, combine the water, oats, tigernut flour, onion powder, garlic powder, and salt. Process on high speed until very smooth. Pour batter into a bowl to ladle out premeasured amounts to the pan.

If you aren’t concerned about making evenly sized tortillas, you can pour the batter straight from the blender carafe into the pan.




Heat a well-seasoned cast-iron or nonstick pan over medium-high heat until very hot.

If you are not sure if your pan is nonstick, add a quick spritz or swipe of oil to the pan.




Ladle 1/3 cup of batter into the hot pan and immediately lift and tilt so that the batter spreads to about a 6- or 7-inch circle.

The thickness of the wraps will depend on how much batter you use for each.

I found that 6″ was the most manageable size to handle when flipping.




Cook for 2 minutes until set; flip over and cook about 1 minute longer. Flip, cook for 30 seconds, flip and cook for another 30 seconds. Done. Transfer to a plate or cooling rack.

You know when to flip with bubbles form over the entire surface, pop, and don’t close back up.

The dough doesn’t darken as it cooks, so don’t let the coloring fool you.




Repeat with the remaining batter.


Storage and Reheating


Slip a piece of parchment paper in between each wrap, then slide them into an airtight container or bag. Fridge: Store leftover wraps in the refrigerator for 5-7 days. Freezer: These wraps can be frozen for 3 months (maybe longer).

When you want to eat them, remove one or more from the freezer and thaw on the countertop or in the fridge for a few hours. Place a non-stick pan over low heat or in the oven for a few minutes, warming each side.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				In this photo I have already flipped the wrap. I swore I took one of the other side cooking, but it disappeared in the Cloud!
				

			
				
			
				
				Here is a close-up of it when done cooking. It stays light in color and doesn’t get many brown spots on it. If cooked too long, the edges will turn a pale cream color and will get a bit crunchy for folding.
				

			
				
			
				
				After making up a batch of wraps, I made myself some lunch. I spread hummus on the wrap and added chunks of cooked sweet potato and arugula microgreens to it. It held up perfectly… all the way to the last bite.
				

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



