Raw Chocolate Enrobed Cinnamon Cookie Sticks
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/chocolate-enrobed-cinnamon-cookie-sticks/



	Chocolate Enrobed Cinnamon Cookie Sticks

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

There are different types of cinnamon and the one that you use makes can markedly change the taste of a recipe.   You will commonly find Cassia cinnamon in the local grocery stores.

It is less expensive and a bit spicier and more pungent. It is therefore preferred in exotic meat dishes, curries, and other savory foods.  It also has a darker color than Ceylon cinnamon which is my favorite and the only one that I will use.  It has a lighter, sweeter, and more delicate flavor.  This cinnamon has a more delicate and complex flavor, with citrus, floral, and clove notes.  Ceylon cinnamon is sometimes called true cinnamon. It is, of course, more expensive.

I never used to be a cinnamon snob, but I am now.  A few years ago, I went through an apple phase.  I was craving them and eating a couple a day.  I would slice them up and heavily sprinkle on the cinnamon.

Somehow in my spice drawer, I had ended up with two different bottles of cinnamon.  I never thought much about it but soon started noticing a big difference in taste.  That is when I started my research.   I encourage you to try the two side by side and see what you think.

You usually won’t find Ceylon cinnamon in the standard grocery store, unless they have a gourmet foods section.   If you pick up a bottle of cinnamon and it doesn’t read “Ceylon”…. it will be the Cassia version.  After plenty of research and testing several brands, I have come to enjoy the Organic Frontier Cinnamon brand.  I buy it by the pound because… yes, I do use a lot of cinnamon in my life.  :)

The chocolate coating that I used in the recipe worked beautifully but do take note that it will soften if kept at room temperature for too long.  I store mine in the fridge until ready for eating.

Ingredients:

Yields 22 cookies

Cookies:


1 cup raw almond flour

 1 cup raw cashew flour

1 cup shredded coconut, powdered

2 Tbsp raw coconut crystals

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

 1/4 cup raw vanilla infused agave

2 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 tsp vanilla extract


Chocolate drizzle:


1/4 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 cup maple syrup


Sprinklers:


Raw coconut crystals


Preparation:

Cookies:




In a large mixing bowl combine; almond flour, cashew flour, powdered coconut, coconut crystals, cinnamon, and salt.  I actually ran mine through a sifter to make sure everything was well mixed and fine.

In a small bowl stir together the agave, coconut oil, and vanilla extract.    Pour into the dry ingredients and mix the batter together with your hands.

Scoop out the batter in measure 1 Tbsp measurements or as desired.  Roll into small chubby logs, flattening the ends.

Place the cookies on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 16 hours.  The exterior will be a bit firm but the cookies will be moist and chewy on the inside.  Check them periodically throughout the dry time to find that “sweet spot” of doneness.


Chocolate drizzle:


Place the coconut oil, cacao, and maple syrup in the blender and blend until it turns smooth and creamy.

Pour into a shallow bowl.  If the mixture is real soupy in texture, place in the fridge for 5-10 minutes.  Needs to be thick enough to hold onto the cookie stick

Tip: To melt the coconut oil, place the jar in a large bowl of hot water.  You can hand mix this, but I find that it doesn’t get as creamy and risk having grainy cacao bits in it.

Dip the dehydrated cookie into the chocolate, coating the whole thing.  Lift out with a fork, tap the fork handle on the edge of the bowl a few times to knock off excess chocolate.  Then slide the bottom of the fork along the edge and you go to transfer it to a rack to cool.

Sprinkle with raw coconut crystals and place in the fridge or a cool room to set up.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw Coconut Crystals add a “brown sugar” flavor to a recipe.  Read about it (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.







 



 



 



 

 


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



