Brown Sugared Oatmeal Raisin Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/brown-sugared-oatmeal-raisin-cookies/



	Brown Sugared Oatmeal Raisin Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I’m drawn to the rustic sensibilities of an old fashion oatmeal cookie. I think what I love about them the most is that they are approachable, delivering on flavor with a sense they’ve been around forever and don’t plan on going anywhere soon.

But then I got to thinking… everyone has their own rendition of what an oatmeal cookie ought to taste and look like. Thick, thin, chewy, crunchy, raisins, no raisins… there is a plethora of recipes out there.

I mean, truly, perfection in a cookie is a matter of individual preference, right? And no cookie is judged more closely and more frequently than the oatmeal cookie.

So to eliminate the hard-core scrutiny of comparing this cookie to some highly apprised oatmeal cookie from your childhood… I decided to throw the whole traditional idea out and took a creative spin down the road.

I did lean on oats as the foundation of this cookie. But instead of wheat flour, I used hazelnut flour, and to sweeten them I used banana (can’t detect) and raw coconut crystals.  I then topped them off with a quick roll in raw coconut crystals, which is totally optional but I must say that it adds an amazing element to this cookie.

I am here to invite you to try this thick, “Brown Sugared” Oatmeal Raisin Cookie that is full of warm flavors of oats and cinnamon.  To create pockets of chewiness I added soaked raisins.  Re-hydrating them is an extra step but well worth it. By covering them with warm water and letting them sit for 10 minutes or so, they plump up. That way when the cookies “bake” in the dehydrator the raisins stay plump and juicy. Oh sooo good!

These cookies are the stuff that happy memories are made from.  I hope you enjoy this recipe and would love to hear your thoughts below.  Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields… failed to count!


1 1/2 cups gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked

1 1/2 cups hazelnut flour

1/2 cup raw coconut crystals

1/2 large ripe banana

3 Tbsp coconut oil, softened

1 1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp almond extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/3 cup raisins, rehydrated


Preparation:


After soaking the oats, drain and rinse for 2 minutes under cool water.

Use your fingers to agitate them around.

Hand squeeze the excess water from them and place in a medium-sized mixing bowl.




Rehydrate the raisins in enough water to cover them.  Soak for at least 15 minutes.

This will plump up the raisins so they can absorb flavor.

Drain excess water before adding the raisins to the batter.




In a large bowl combine the oats, hazelnut flour, coconut crystals, banana, coconut oil, cinnamon, almond extract, salt, and raisins.

With your fingers, mix everything together.  Get in there and have fun!

You can also mix this all together in the food processor to create a smoother batter.  The texture is up to you.

Feel free to use almond flour or more oats if you want to make this nut-free.




Using the 1/4 cup cookie scoop, scoop out a level portion, place in the palm of your hand, and gently roll into a ball.

Place the ball in the shallow dish with some extra coconut crystals.  Roll the ball around. (optional)

Remove and then toss the ball back and forth in your hands, above the shallow dish, to knock off any excess coconut crystals.

Now, here is the fun part!

Hold the ball 1-2 feet above the dehydrator tray that is lined with a non-stick sheet.

Drop it!  But when you do… holler… COOKIE BOMB!!! As the cookie hits the tray it will flatten perfectly… creating the perfect cookie shape as though it had a slight spread when  “cooking.”  Seriously, this step must not be skipped. :)




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry for 6-10 hours.  Take them out when they reach the moist/dry level that you like. I like my cookies moist and chewy. Bob likes them more on the crunchier side.

Partway through the drying process, transfer the cookies to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  This will allow air to totally circulate around the cookies, thus speeding up the dry time.




Store in an airtight container in the fridge for better shelf life.  They can also be frozen. Enjoy!




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw Coconut Crystals add a “brown sugar” flavor to a recipe.  Read about it (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



