Peanut Butter & Jam Sandwiches - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/peanut-butter-jam-sandwiches/



	Peanut Butter & Jam Sandwiches

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Peanut Butter & Jam Sandwiches are one of the all-time favorite comfort foods!  They offer up a delicious pairing of salt and sweet that will leave your mouth-watering for more.  Be sure to have yourself an ice-cold nut milk handy because these dunk beautifully!

Whole & Ground Oats

You will notice in the ingredient list that I used both whole and ground oats.  The reason I did this was purely for texture reasons.  I wanted the cookie to have a nice chew to it but didn’t want to see large flecks of oat throughout.

Are Oats Raw?

This is a big question that always pops up.  The answer is, yes, they can be.  It is important that you do some research on whichever brand that you use, especially if raw is a top priority for you.  Several years ago, I wrote up a small post on this matter, please click (here) to read more about it.

Are Oats Gluten-Free?

Yes, they are BUT there are many factors that you need to look for. Number one, the bag must read “gluten-free,”  with this statement it is certified that they are.  Without this, you have no idea if they have been exposed to cross-contamination.  Only you know the sensitivity that you have with gluten.  Again, I shared some further information regarding this.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to Soak Oats?

It is my recommendation to do so. Yep, you guessed it… I have another post dedicated to this topic as well.  As you can see, a lot of questions pop up regarding oats.  Click (here) for some Sunday afternoon reading.  Some people tend to skip this part because it involves some prep time.  You will need to soak and then dehydrate the oats before you can use them.  If you wish to make this part of your practice, I suggest doing this in large batches and then store them in the fridge or freezer.  This way, the oats will be ready to go when inspiration hits you.

Peanuts are not Nuts.

Questions will pop regarding the fact that I am pegging this recipe as nut-free.  I did because this recipe is nut-free.  Peanuts are not nuts, they are legumes. “Despite its name, a peanut is a legume and not a nut. This is why some people who have allergies to certain nuts can still eat peanuts, and other individuals with peanut allergies can eat true nuts.”  (source)

Ingredients:

Cookie:


2 cups gluten-free oats

1 cup oat flour

1 cup natural peanut butter, fresh ground

1/2 cup raw agave nectar

1/4 cup raw honey softened, or coconut nectar

1/4 cup + 1 Tbsp raw cold pressed coconut oil, melted

1 1/2  tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Jam:


1 cup fresh strawberries, organic

1 cup dried apricots


 Preparation:

Cookies:


To make the oat flour,  place 1 cup oats and salt in the food processor and process until it becomes a fine powder.

Add the other 2 cups of oats and just pulse together 2 x.

Remove the lid and place the peanut butter, agave, honey, and vanilla around the surface of the bowl. Process until well incorporated and the batter starts to stick together as it goes around the bowl.

Be careful that you don’t over-process the batter or it will get too oily.




Form balls and flatten with a fork.

You can eat these right away or dehydrate them at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to  115 degrees (F) for up to 16 hrs.

They won’t become crispy. But the outsides will firm up some.




To melt your coconut oil – the best way to melt your coconut oil is to boil some water in your tea kettle.  Set your coconut oil jar in a large bowl and pour the hot water over it.  It will take less than 5 minutes to get some of it melted.


Jam:


Place the strawberries and apricots in your food processor and blend until well incorporated.

Simply create a sandwich with jam in between two cookies!

The number of sandwiches that this recipe will yield will all depend on how large or small you wish to make them.

Store in airtight containers.  In the fridge, I would give them about 7 days, in the freezer, up to a month.








© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



