Chocolate Coconut Bombs - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/chocolate-coconut-bombs/



	Chocolate Coconut Bombs

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Ummm, pop one of these Chocolate Coconut Bombs into your mouth and let the flavors flood your taste buds.  I gave some of these to my girlfriend Tracy and she confessed to hoarding them and not sharing them with her honey.  Shhhh! We won’t tell on you!

You could easily dress these up by adding different flavored oils to them; orange, peppermint, lemon, whatever flavor is your favorite.

These bombs go together nice and quickly.  They don’t require dehydration or baking.  The longest part is rolling 38 little balls, but you will be rewarded with sticky, chocolatey stained fingers. Not such a bad pay-off.

Ingredients:

Yields 38 (roughly 1 Tbsp per) ball


1/2 cup raw macadamia nuts

2 cups gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated

2 cups dried shredded coconut

1/2 cup raw coconut flour

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup raw cold pressed coconut oil, warmed to liquid

1/4 cup raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1/4 cup water

1 tsp vanilla extract

5 Medjool dates, pitted

Hardening Chocolate for coating


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, break the macadamia nuts down to a small crumble.  Set aside in a small bowl.

Add the oats to the food processor and process to a flour-like texture.

Add the dried coconut, coconut flour, cacao powder, and salt.  Pulse together, add mac nuts and process once again until everything is well mixed.

Add the oil, agave, vanilla, and dates.  Process until the batter sticks together when pinched.

The batter should be moist but dry to the touch when rolled into a ball.




Roll the batter into 1” balls in the palm of your hands and dip in the chocolate sauce.

Set the balls on parchment paper after making each one.




Place in the fridge so the chocolate firms up.

If you want a thicker layer of chocolate, dip them a second time once the first layer of chocolate has firmed up.















© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



