Raw Blueberry n' Tahini Oat Cookies (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/blueberry-n-tahini-oat-cookies/



	Blueberry n’ Tahini Oat Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Firm around the edges, softer in the center, these oatmeal cookies are a combination of a sesame nutty taste… a nubbly texture of oats with sweet pockets of blazing blueberry madness.  Madness, I tell you! :)

Nut-Free!

To make these cookies nut-free, I used tahini which might be a new ingredient to some of you.  Tahini, unlike other seed and nut butters, is rarely but sometimes referred to as ‘sesame seed butter’.  But, the fact is, that is exactly what it is.

Sesame seeds are simply pureed into a paste-like texture, much like almond butter or peanut butter.   The taste?  Tastes just like sesame seeds.  If you don’t care for that flavor, there is no getting around it… the taste of sesame shines through in this cookie.

You can always substitute it with any other nut or seed butter but I encourage you to give it a try.  I was very pleased with the combination of these flavors.  Tahini can taste bitter all on its own… frankly I didn’t care for the stuff when I first tried it, but as I developed my taste buds for whole plant-based foods, I found that I now really enjoy the unique flavor that our plant kingdom has to offer.

If you are off-put by the first tahini that you try… don’t give up… test other brands, they differ from one to the other.  My favorite is Artisana Raw Tahini.  It is a very mild, subtle, creamy tahini that is made from raw sesame seeds.  If the taste of the raw version isn’t your thing, you can always opt for roasted which has a more subtle flavor to me. I hope you and your loved ones enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 10.5 (1/3 cup measured) cookies


1 cup packed Medjool dates, pitted

1/2 cup tahini butter

2 tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 vanilla bean, seeds only

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

3/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cup gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

3/4 cup dried blueberries


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the dates, tahini, coconut oil, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt.  Process to a thick creamy texture.

Add the oats and process until well incorporated.

Soaking the oats is an option, one that your digestive might thank you for.  If you choose not to, you will need to add a little water so the ingredients fuse together as a moist batter.




Add the blueberries, pulsing a few times… just enough to mix them in.

To create the cookie shapes, I used my large ice cream scoop which measures out to 1/3 of a cup.  You can make the cookies any size that you wish.

Flatten slightly and place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce to 115 degrees (F), and continue to dry for up to 24 hours.

Check on them every so often to test for doneness.

They should be firm on the outside but moist on the inside.




Store on the counter, uncovered for a few days, or in an airtight container for 5-7 days.  They can be frozen for 1-2 months.   These are just guidelines so keep an eye on them.

If you don’t have a dehydrator you could freeze them and enjoy them cold.  I tested a few and enjoyed them as well.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



