Peppermint Christmas Pinwheel Sugar Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/peppermint-christmas-pinwheel-sugar-cookies/



	Peppermint Christmas Pinwheel “Sugar” Cookies

													    
    


				 



~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

At the age of 16, I started really getting into baking cookies.  Prior to that age, I ate my fair share of store-bought cookies but when I made them at home, I usually ran out of patience and just ate the dough.  Shew, glad to have that off my chest.  I have been carrying that cookie sin on my shoulders far too long.  :)

But as I was saying, at around 16 I really dove deep into the world of Christmas baking.  A good friend of mine at the time would come over on a Saturday morning about 6:00 am and we would bake till at least midnight.

I remember one year, I made 1,600 Russian Tea Cakes… in one day!  It was insane but fun.   We would then make up trays, wrap them in cellophane, close it with a pretty bow and made our deliveries.  I swear we fed the state of Alaska. And to this day making cookies remains one of my favorite Christmas traditions.

The wonderful cookies in this recipe are semi-firm on the outside, soft on the inside, chewy, sweet but not too sweet and leave your mouth with a cooling freshness of peppermint.  Present them to your loved ones on a silver tray with tall glasses of nut milk.  Or you could wrap them individually in small plastic bags and tie it off with a bow.  Another fun idea is to make a cookie sucker.  Simply slide a sucker stick into the bottom of them!  Package in decorative boxes, tins, jars, shoot you could use about any wonderful container that could become part of the gift.  Just be sure to slide a piece of wax paper or plastic wrap in between each cookie so they don’t stick together.

Another fun idea is to make a cookie sucker.  Simply slide a sucker stick into the bottom of them!  Package in decorative boxes, tins, jars, shoot you could use about any wonderful container that could become part of the gift.  Just be sure to slide a piece of wax paper or plastic wrap in between each cookie so they don’t stick together.

For the almond flour, I used a fine almond flour, not ground almonds.  You can achieve a raw fine almond flour by soaking the almond, remove the skins, dehydrate, and grind to a finer flour texture.  If you just use ground almonds the batter can turn out grainy. Another way to achieve a fine almond flour is too dry the almond pulp after making almond milk.  Grind this to a fine powder once dried. If you are not able to do this and 100% raw isn’t your top priority, you can purchase almond flour.

Word of caution:  this recipe has two parts to it; the plain cookie dough and the peppermint cookie dough.  One might think to just double the ingredients, split in 1/2 and then add the different extracts BUT I encourage you to refrain from that because the batter doubled could be too much for your food processor to handle.  The dough goes together fairly quickly so don’t worry about that.  Happy Holidays!

Ingredients:

Yields 36 cookies

Sugar dough:


2 cup fine almond flour

1 cup raw cashew flour

1/3 cup shredded coconut flakes, powdered

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/3 cup maple syrup

2 Tbsp water

1/2  vanilla bean, seeds only

1/2 tsp almond extract



Peppermint sugar doughs:


2 1/4 cup almond flour

1 cup raw cashew flour

1/3 cup shredded coconut flakes, powdered

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/3 cup maple syrup

1 tsp peppermint extract

1/4 cup beet juice



Preparation:


If you make your own almond meal, be sure to remove the skins from the almonds if you want your cookie to be creamy white.

In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, cashew flour, coconut, and salt.  Process together.

Add the sweetener, vanilla bean seeds, and extracts.  Process until it starts sticking together and forms a ball.  Do this for each dough batter.

For the peppermint batter, add the beet juice the same time you add in the sweetener and other ingredients.




Wrap each ball in plastic wrap and place in the freezer for 1 hour.  This will help with the rolling out process.

Place the ball in between 2 pieces of plastic wrap and roll the dough out to about 1/4″ thickness.  My dough measured 14″ long by 8″ wide, roughly.   Repeat the process with the peppermint dough.

Remove the top plastic wrap off of the top of the plain cookie dough and lay the peppermint dough on top of it (remove the plastic wrap from the peppermint dough when doing this).

Using bottom sheet of plastic wrap as a guide, starting at long side, tightly roll up dough jelly-roll fashion, removing plastic wrap as you roll.  See photos below to better understand.

Leave the outer plastic wrap on and place in the fridge for a minimum of 1 hour to chill and firm up a bit.

Once chilled, remove from the fridge and place the roll on the cutting board, sliding the plastic wrap off.  Slice into 1/4-1/2″ thick slices and lay them flat on the mesh sheet that comes with your dehydrator.  I recommend using a serrated knife (bread knife) and gently rock the knife back and forth slightly as you make the cut.  This will ensure a nice smooth slice.

Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for roughly 16-24 hours or until desired dryness is reached.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).



Substitutions:

One of the greatest joys when creating raw food recipes is experimenting with different ingredients… a practice that I highly encourage.  Daily I get questions regarding substitutions.  Of course, we all might have different dietary needs and tastes which could necessitate altering a recipe.    I love to share with you what I create for myself, my husband, friends, and family.  I spend a lot of time selecting the right ingredients with a particular goal in mind, looking to build a certain flavor and texture.


So as you experiment with substitutions, remember they are what they sound like, they are substitutes for the preferred item.  Generally, they are not going to behave, taste, or have the same texture as the suggested ingredient.   Some may work, and others may not and I can’t promise what the results will be unless I’ve tried them myself.   So have fun, don’t be afraid,  and remember, substituting is how I discovered many of my unique dishes.













The colors in these photos haven’t been altered.  It’s amazing
how much the colors shifted once dehydrated. :)



This cookie was created with the end piece of the roll that I have
cut off.  It had a little bit of both colors, so I rolled it into a ball,
rolled it out and used a cookie cutter to create this beautiful cookie.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



