How to Steam Potatoes
https://nouveauraw.com/cooked/instant-pot-recipes/how-to-steam-potatoes-instant-pot-stove-top/



	How to Steam Potatoes | Instant Pot | Stove Top

													    
    


				When it comes to maintaining as many nutrients as possible, it’s important to look at our cooking methods. Potatoes are generally prepared by the following four methods: bake, boil, steam, and fry. Today, I am going to talk about how to properly steam them.



I love love love potatoes, not only for their taste and nutritional value, but also for how they are grown–underground! That may not sound thrilling, but have you ever dug them up?! My step-dad is a master gardener in Alaska. Many years ago he planted a large patch of potatoes and called me over when it was time to harvest them. I was there before he could hang up the phone.

I stood over the dirt mounds, bent over, and started digging like a dog. Black soil was flying everywhere…soon a potato would emerge. I would drive my fingertips into the soil to cradle the spud in my hands. With each one I unearthed, I held it above my head hooting and hollering with excitement. I don’t know why, but it brought me pure joy. That’s my love story with potatoes, but now it’s time to move on with this post.

Once you master proper cooking methods to retain as many nutrients as possible, pay close attention to what other ingredients to add to them; will they increase the potato’s value, or blow all your efforts? If interested in boiling your potatoes, click (here).  For baked potatoes, click (here).

How to Maximize Nutrients


Eat only organic potatoes! According to the USDA’s Pesticide Data Program, 35 different pesticides have been found on conventional potatoes. Of these: 6 are known or probably carcinogens, 12 are suspected hormone disruptors, 7 are neurotoxins, and 6 are developmental or reproductive toxins.

Avoid peeling the potatoes before cooking them. The outer shell provides good protection against nutritional loss during the cooking process. The protein and mineral content beneath the skin is very high, so if you cook after peeling, most of these proteins and minerals will be lost.

Eat the skins. Sometimes skins are removed for aesthetics, but if possible, eat them!


Steaming Tips


Timing is always going to depend on the size of the potatoes and how many you can fit into the pot you have. So use the times down below as guidelines.

Before steaming, the cooking liquid should be brought to a simmer before the potatoes are placed over top.  If foods are placed over a cold liquid and then brought to a simmer, the food will spend an unnecessary amount of time in the basket and could overcook or cook unevenly.

When steaming on the stovetop, you can test doneness by poking with a fork.

When I steam potatoes in my Instant Pot, I always stick to the method below when I use 3 lbs of potatoes at a time.

Small potatoes can be steamed whole.

Large potatoes are best rough chopped in 1 1/2-inch chunks so they cook evenly and quickly.

The ONLY time I recommend removing the skins is if you are using conventionally grown potatoes.


Steamed Potato Inspiration


Chunky Potato Salad | Oil-free

Grand Slam Mashed Potato Waffles | Oil-Free

Cheesy Mashed Potato Waffles | Oil-Free

Dill and Chive Mash Potato Hash Browns| Oil-Free

Mashed Potatoes with Chives | Oil-Free

Twice-Baked Mashed Potato Casserole | Oil-Free | Batch Cooking

Creamy Dijon Dressing | Oil-free | Nut-free


Ingredients


3 lbs organic potatoes


Steaming Methods

Option 1 -Steam Method | Stove Top


Scrub and rough chop the potatoes into uniform bite-sized pieces (so they cook evenly) and have a good mouth-feel. Place in a steamer basket.

Bring the water to a simmer before the potatoes are placed over top.

If foods are placed over a cold liquid and then brought to a simmer, the food will spend an unnecessary amount of time in the basket and could overcook or cook unevenly.




Once the water comes to a simmer, place the loaded steamer basket into the pot.

Cook and let steam until fork-tender, roughly 20 to 30 minutes. Be careful that you don’t overcook the potatoes, otherwise, the potato salad will get mushy (unless you like that!).

Using a slotted spoon or a strainer, transfer the cooked potatoes to a bowl.


Option 2 – Steam Method | Instant Pot


Scrub and rough chop the potatoes into uniform bite-sized pieces (so they cook evenly). Place in a steamer basket.

If the potatoes are small, you can steam them whole.




Add 2 cups of water to the Instant Pot and place the loaded steam basket in the pot.

You don’t want the potatoes sitting in the water. If using a 6-quart unit, use only 1 cup of water.





Attach and secure the lid and turn the pressure valve to the “Sealing” position.



Press “Manual,” place on high pressure, and adjust the cooking time for 7 minutes.



When machine beeps, do a quick release by turning the valve to the “Venting” position. Be very careful of the steam shooting out of the valve.


When the pin drops, open the lid, and carefully remove potatoes from the basket to a bowl.







		
		
			
				
			

			
				
			
				
				Place the potatoes in the steamer basket.
				

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



