Maple Pecan Oatmeal Cookies
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/maple-pecan-oatmeal-cookies/



	Maple Pecan Oatmeal Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I want to say that this recipe happened by accident… but when it comes to cookies, there is no such thing as an “accident”… it was just flat meant to be!

When I hit the kitchen floor running with my ingredients in hand (P.S. never run with knives), I started out with the intention of creating donuts… BUT… by the time I had all of the ingredients mixed, the batter wasn’t suited to be molded. No recipe will get the best of me, nope, nada, I refuse to let it fluster me, making me feel as though I failed.

In the end, I reframed my thinking, and SHAZAM (think Marvel comics) a cookie was born.  That my friend is the beauty of raw foods, you don’t have that same freedom with cooked foods, especially baked goods.

Before I dived into the raw lifestyle, I thought that I wanted to be a pastry chef. The whole idea of HAVING to follow a recipe to a “T” seemed appealing to me. I use to love structure in my life and baking seemed like a good fit for me.

But thankfully, the art of raw, whole foods came into my life, and it took my non-existing culinary talents to a whole new level. Never in a million years would I have thought that I would land where I am today, doing what I am doing.  I am so glad that I stopped trying to control my life. Once I got out of the way… the doors opened, the passions began to flourish.

So, let me review this cookie for you. Through the magic of dehydration, I managed to create a cookie that is firm on the outside, soft on the inside, chewy, not too sweet, filled with nutrients, and loaded with flavor.

With my “cookie bomb” technique in play and the slight sprinkling of raw coconut sugar on top… this cookie has a cooked appearance.  It’s just flat-out delicious, but don’t just take my word for it. Give the recipe a try and let me know what you think.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


yields 30 (1/4 cup batter each cookie) 


2 cups (386) buckwheat, soaked 30 minutes

2 cups (246 g) rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked

1/4 cup ( 36 g) ground flax seeds

3/4 cup (180 g)  raw pumpkin puree

1/2 cup (106 g) water

1/3 cup (98 g) maple syrup

1 tsp (4 g) maple flavoring

1/2 tsp (2 g)  liquid stevia

1 Tbsp (9 g) pumpkin spice blend

1 tsp (4 g)  ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp (6 g)  Himalayan pink salt

1 1/2 cups (180 g) chopped pecans, soaked

1 cup (140 g) dried raisins or goji berries

1 cup (90 g) shredded coconut

1 cup (80 g) pecans, chopped, hand-mixed


Preparation:



After soaking the oats and buckwheat, rinse them both with cool water until the water runs clear. Hand-squeeze the excess water from both of them before adding to the recipe.

In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the; buckwheat, oats, flax, pumpkin puree, water, sweeteners, maple flavoring,  pumpkin spice, cinnamon, and salt. Process until it turns into a thick paste.

Add the pecans, raisins, and coconut. Processing until semi-broken down.

Hand mix in the last cup of pecans for texture.


Cookie Bomb:
(Here comes the fun part… This creates a natural cookie shape.)


Place your dehydrator tray, lined with a mesh sheet to the side.

Have a nonstick sheet in front of you.

Scoop out 1/4 cup of batter.

Roll into a ball in the palm of your hands.

If the batter is sticky on your hands, keep a bowl of water nearby and quickly dip them in the water in between rolling the balls.




I want you to raise the cookie dough ball high into the air and drop it (with force) onto the nonstick sheet in front of you. (don’t forget to holler, “Cookie Bomb!” as it lands)

Lift the nonstick sheet up and lay the flattened cookie in your palm, peeling off the nonstick sheet.

Place the cookie on the mesh sheet on the dehydrator tray.

Repeat and have fun till all the batter is used up.


Dehydrated:


Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16 hours or until it reaches the desired dryness.

Have one cookie designated to be the taste-tester. Throughout the drying process, break off a piece, let it cool, and then test it for the moisture level that you want to be left in the cookie. Bob likes his cookies dry; I like mine moist.




Remove from dehydrator and allow to cool.

Shelf life:

Countertop: 5-7 days

Fridge for 3 weeks

Freezer 1-3 months

Remember * the shelf life will depend on how much moisture is left in the cookie. The more moisture, the shorter the shelf life.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



