Raw Chunky Macadamia Blueberry Cookie
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/chunky-macadamia-blueberry-cookie/



	Chunky Macadamia Blueberry Cookie

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I forgot how much I enjoy macadamia nuts in cookies.  This has to be one of my all-time favorite cookies.  They don’t crisp up but they do have a firm exterior and chewy center.  The macadamia nuts give the cookie a delicate buttery flavor along with a  crunchy texture that makes them such a delight to consume.

When comparing nuts, ounce for ounce macadamia nuts are one of the most calorie-dense nuts, but they do also contain the greatest amount of heart-healthy monounsaturated fat per serving of any nut.  This ‘good fat’ is known to lower LDL ‘bad’ cholesterol levels and blood pressure.

Macadamia nuts do grow on trees but did you know that they are hand-harvested after they fall to the ground?  Does this fascinate you as much as it does me? :)  The more I learn about food the more I realize that I don’t know much when it comes to food!  How is it we can spend our lives eating thousands of varieties of food, yet we have no idea where it comes from or how it is grown?!

Ingredients:

Yields 15 (3 Tbsp) cookies


1 1/4 cup raw pecans, soaked & dehydrated

3 cups shredded coconut

1/4 cup lucuma powder

1 1/2 tsp sea salt

1 cup maple syrup

1/3 cup raw coconut butter, melted

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

3/4 cup macadamia nuts, chopped

1/2 cup dried blueberries


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade,  grind the pecans down to a fine of a texture as possible.

Add the coconut, lucuma powder, and salt.  Pulse together.

Add the agave, coconut butter, and vanilla.  Process until the batter sticks together when pressed.

Hand mix in the chopped macadamia nuts and dried blueberries.

Drop dough by rounded tablespoon onto dehydrator screen.  I used my small cookie scoop.

Dehydrate for 1 hour at 145 degrees, then decrease to 115 degrees (F) for 10- 16 hours.

Store in air-tight containers.  These will freeze well for those last-minute engagements.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



