Quinoa “Oatmeal” Raisin Cookies - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/quinoa-raisin-cookies/



	Quinoa Raisin Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Quinoa “Oatmeal” Raisin Cookies taste just like an oatmeal cookie!!  I interrupt this posting to state as of today (Dec. 14, 2015) that I have removed the word “Oatmeal” from the recipe title.  I have made this cookie several times now and it doesn’t remind me of oatmeal cookies as it once did. lol And I don’t want to set up expectations for others.

Back to the program…

They are very moist and chewy.  Best of all, they are gluten-free, dairy-free, free of artificial sweeteners and they are raw!!  This means that you are going to get every bit of nutrients that you can out of those mighty fine ingredients.

P.S. I have included a baking option for those of you who don’t own a dehydrator.  You are still light years ahead of purchasing commercially processed cookies.  So I am proud of you for being here.  I do recommend in time that you invest in one as it will open up a whole new culinary world to you. :) I highly recommend the 9 tray Excalibur dehydrator.

You also have the option of using sprouted or cooked quinoa.  Some people have a harder time digesting raw quinoa so please just listen to your body.

I didn’t include a side by side photo of the cooked and the raw version.  They didn’t really change color or show any significant difference in appearance.  I will, however, say that I liked the raw version better.  It was chewier and the flavor was just …. deeper?  Hard to explain.  They were both good but I will stick to dehydrating them.



Ingredients:

Yields 17 (1/4 cup each) cookies


2 cups quinoa, sprouted or cooked

2 cups raw pecans, soaked

4 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup maple syrup

2 cups raisins


Preparation:


Drain and rinse the pecans after soaking.  Place in the food processor and process the pecans down to a small crumble.

Add the salt and cinnamon. Pulse a few times to mix.

Add the quinoa and continue to process for about thirty seconds.

Add the sweetener and process, allowing some of the grain to break down and blend into the dough.

Place the dough into a large bowl and hand mix in the raisins.

Place small dollops of the dough onto non-stick dehydrator sheets and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 4 hours. The outside of the cookies should no longer be tacky.

At this point, you can remove them from the sheets and place them onto the mesh so they can ‘bake’ faster.

Continue in the dehydrator for about 5 more hours. Watch them carefully as every house and dehydrator is different.

Once cool, store in an airtight container for 1 week.


Baking option:


Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place the cookies at least 1” apart.  These cookies won’t flatten while they cook, you will need to help them by slightly flattening them with your fingers.

Bake for about 20 minutes.  Often times ovens run at different temperatures regardless of what the dial says so please check in on the cookies about every 5 minutes for the first batch. Document the time it takes for the next tray or batch.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



