Cinnamon Skillet Apples
https://nouveauraw.com/cooked/cinnamon-skillet-apples-oil-free-sugar-free/



	Cinnamon Skillet Apples | Oil-Free | Sugar-Free

													    
    


				
These Cinnamon Skillet Apples taste like a warm apple pie right out of the oven. This recipe is 100% guilt-free, oil-free, vegan, no added sugar, and is a perfect addition to your morning porridge, a mid-afternoon snack, or dessert after dinner. If you find yourself with an abundance of delicious organic apples, I highly recommend taking a peek at this recipe.



There are so many beautiful ways to enjoy this recipe. You can keep a container of these in the fridge to use throughout the week, plus you can pack some away in the freezer for a future date. I always keep a container of mini raw vegan, gluten-free pie crusts in the freezer. For a quick dessert, you could pop one out, add a heaping scoop of these apples in the crust, and bake until warmed through.

Endless Ways to Enjoy Cinnamon Skillet Apples




Lemon Poppy / Basil Seed Waffles | Flour-Free | Oil-Free

Cinnamon Banana Oat Waffles | Oil-Free

Oatmeal Waffles | Oil-Free | Nut-Free

Simple Oat Waffles | Oil-free

Italian Corn Porridge | Soaked | Stove-Top | Oil-Free

Buckwheat Oatmeal Porridge | Instant Pot

Buckwheat Porridge

Steel Cut Oats

Add on top of raw vegan ice creams


A Few GuidanceTips


Make sure all the apple pieces are uniform in size to ensure that they cook evenly.

Apples with a firm texture not only taste better, but they also maintain their shape. I recommend Honeycrisp, Jonagold, Fuji, Braeburn, and Pink Lady apples. Do not use mealy apples; you will be disappointed in the mouthfeel.

Before making this recipe, taste your apples, making sure they are sweet.

Keep the temperature low during the cooking process. Higher heat won’t cook them any quicker; they will just stick, burn, and turn into a mess.

While the apples are cooking, taste test them along the way. Check for doneness (stop before they turn mushy), test for sweetness (add stevia or maple syrup if needed–just a tiny bit), and test for seasoning (add more if you like a more robust taste).


Make Every Bite Count


Use organic apples.   The USDA Pesticide Data Program found 47 pesticide residues on conventionally grown apples, including 6 known or probable carcinogens, 16 suspected hormone disrupters, 5 neurotoxins, 6 developmental or reproductive toxins, and 11 honeybee toxins. (1)

Keep the organic apple skins on for added fiber and nutrients.

If you feel the need to add sugar, keep it minimal.  Apples contain a lot of natural sweetness, and the cooking process helps to draw that out.  The sea salt also enhances the sweetness.


Ingredients

Yields 4 cups



1 cup water

6 cups diced organic apples

2 tsp Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Apple Pie Spice Mix

1/2 tsp sea salt





Preparation




Thoroughly wash and dry the apples.



Dice the apples into small, bite-sized, fairly uniform pieces, about 1/4 inch thick. Throw the cores in the compost bin.

The larger the chunks, the longer they will take to cook.





Place the skillet on the stove and turn the heat to medium-low heat.



Add the water, apples, and spices. Stir well, to evenly distribute the spices.



Gently stir the apples every so often, so they don’t stick.

If the water evaporates, add a little bit more, but also turn the heat down a notch.





Store leftover apples in the refrigerator for up to 4 days and up to 3 months in the freezer. Make sure to store them in airtight containers to protect them from drying out, taking on odors, or getting freezer burn.







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



