Creamy Italian Dressing
https://nouveauraw.com/cooked/condiments-cooked/creamy-italian-dressing-oil-free-nut-free/



	Creamy Italian Dressing | Oil-Free | Nut-Free

													    
    


				
Creamy Italian Dressing adds deliciously rich, zesty flavor to so many dishes, delivering mouthwatering Italian flavor in every bite. It is perfect for drizzling, spreading, or dipping. It has a full-bodied, creamy texture, all thanks to cooked white beans. Ah, I bet you thought that I was going to say cashews or tofu?! Nope, beans!

 



 

I decided on white beans because they are high in protein, low on the glycemic index, low in fat, and high in vitamin content, with tons of fiber. They are also neutral in flavor, which makes them a great choice for the foundation of this dressing. Each little bean contains folate, vitamin B1 (thiamin), potassium, magnesium, and iron.

 

For this recipe, I chose Great Northern beans since they have a mild, nutty flavor and take on the flavors of the food they are cooked with. Technically you can use any white bean that you may already have in your pantry. I also cooked my own beans rather than using canned beans, but you are more than welcome to use canned if need be. If you wish to make your own, I have a post on making them in an Instant Pot or on the Stovetop (here).
Make Every Bite Count


Try to use organic ingredients whenever possible. If you can’t, don’t stress over it. Stress negatively affects our digestion.

Start and keep a daily journal of self-discovery. Jot down quickly the foods you ate and how they made you feel. By doing so, you can discover what foods nourish you best. I’m not advocating counting calories or macros. I don’t want you to become obsessive over it. It’s just a good tool that aids us when trying to eat intuitively.



Ingredients

Yields 2.5 cups


1 1/2 cups cooked white beans; drain and rinse if using canned

1 cup hot water

2 Tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice

2 tsp dijon mustard

1 1/2 tsp Italian seasoning

1 1/2 tsp onion powder

1/2 tsp sea salt

1/2 tsp garlic powder

1/4 tsp black pepper

1 tsp organic maple syrup or few drops liquid stevia (optional)





Preparation


In a blender combine the beans, hot water, lemon juice, mustard, seasonings, and sweeter. Blend until creamy.

Start with 1/2 cup of water and add more if you desire a thinner consistency.

Using hot water will help to soften the beans (even though they are already cooked).




The dressing should come out creamy and smooth.

Store leftovers in the fridge for up to 5 days.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



