Chocolate Coconut-Lemon Meltaway Cookies (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/coconut-lemon-meltaway-cookies/



	Chocolate Coconut-Lemon Meltaway Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe turned out to be just that… meltaways!  This is a one-bite cookie… pop the whole thing right into your mouth and sit back while it just melts on your tongue.

They have the perfect balance of sweetness and lemon to them.  Don’t they look inviting?  To me they look like fluffy little snowballs, ready to melt in your mouth.

As you are making this recipe, be sure to taste test as you go. You can control the sweetness level and make it as lip-puckering as you desire with the lemon.  Sometimes, if my lemons are weak in flavor, I will add 2-4 drops of lemon essential oil to them. Ummm.

These cookies are great to make ahead of time and keep in the freezer for those special moments. You know, like for those 2:00 A.M. snack attacks. Or I suppose for parties and holiday gatherings too. :)

I love creating recipes such as these and that can be kept in the freezer for those unexpected, welcomed, guests.  As your guests are removing their coats, scarves, mittens, and boots… run to the freezer, pull them out of the freezer, arrange them on a pretty plate with a few berries sprinkled around them, and your guests will feel welcomed and special.

When I freeze treats like these, I place them in a freezer-proof container and then slip that container in a freezer Zip-lock bag.  I want to protect my treats to make sure they are free from freezer burn and unwanted odors that can happen in freezers.  Be sure to write the recipe name and date on the bag.  I would safely say that these would freeze just fine for about 3 months.  Though at this point I haven’t had a batch last longer than a week due to over consumption.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

I want to quickly share a tip with you on how to create a mouth-watering texture… it’s imperative that you use a fine flour.  Simply grinding whole nuts to flour, won’t cut it.  I recommend soaking almonds, pop their skins off (look the other way so they don’t get embarrassed), make almond milk so you end up with pure white almond pulp.  Dehydrate then grind that pulp to a fine flour.  This will give you light, airy, and white flour. It is worth the process and one that will teach you new techniques. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please be sure to comment below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 36

Dry Ingredients



1  1/2 cups almond flour or raw almond flour

1  1/2 cups dried shredded coconut, unsweetened

1/4 cup raw coconut flour

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt




Wet Ingredients


6 Tbsp maple syrup

10 drop liquid stevia

1/4 cup + 2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 tsp vanilla extract

1 Tbsp lemon zest

1/4 cup melted coconut oil




Optional ~ Decorating with Chocolate Ingredients:


Hardening Chocolate recipe or 1 1/2 cups Vegan Organic Chocolate Chips (melted)







Preparation:



In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, shredded coconut, coconut flour, and salt.  Process until well mixed.

If you only have large flakes of dried coconut, be sure to break it down to a small crumble before adding to the recipe.




Add the sweeteners, vanilla, lemon juice, lemon zest, and coconut oil.  Process until it creates a large ball as it spins in the food processor.

I used Meyer lemons which are sweeter.

Be sure to zest the lemons before juicing them.




To shape the cookies, I used my 2 tsp cookie scoop.  I then took 3 Tbsp of shredded coconut and further ground it down in my Bullet so I could roll my cookies in it.


Dehydrate or chill:

Dehydrator:

Place cookies on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator, dry at 145 degrees for 1 hour.

This step is to only create a firmer outside and to warm them for eating (if desired, not required).

You want the cookies to be dry on the outside, but still moist on the inside.

Once cookies have cooled, place them in the fridge to chill and set before serving.




Chilling option:

Place cookies in the refrigerator for an hour to chill and set before serving.

This will result in a soft, moist cookie, almost more like a cookie dough ball.

Cookies with last, well wrapped, in the refrigerator for up to 5-7 days.  Or they can be stored in the freezer for 1-3 months.






		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

 

 





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



