Chocolate Raspberry Spinners - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/pb-j-pinwheels/



	PB & J Pinwheels

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

What happens when you combine fruit leathers and cookie dough? Pinwheel cookies are born.   This is one of my “what-you-didn’t-tell-me-that-we-are-suppose-to-bring-a-dessert”…. get out of jail recipes.

I always have fruit leathers in my pantry because I am a sucker for fruit…. organic fruit, fresh fruit, local fruit, Farmer’s Market fruit, Jim Bob’s fruit down the road, fruit on sale… it’s like puppies, I just can’t resist them!  If given $20 and choice of purchasing a pair of shoes or a case of ripe bananas…. BANANAS win!

But what happens is that we can’t stay ahead of it all… and gets to the point of needing to eat now or the fruit flies will devour it? Fruit leathers to the rescue!  Chop, blend, pour, dehydrate… done.

All this to say that having fruit leathers on hand can be a great staple tool when it comes to creating desserts.  You don’t always just have to “rip and eat” the fruit leather.

Take your favorite raw cookie dough, spread it on the fruit leather, roll, and slice.  It is easier to cut if you have time to chill it, but if times are tough… we do what we have to do. :)  If you really want to be an efficient rawk-star, you could pre-make cookie doughs and freeze them.  And let’s face it… raw cookie dough, a spoon, and a really good movie are just about as good as life gets.

Anyway, I hope you enjoy the recipe and keep in touch if you give it a try. Blessings, amie sue  Oh wait… I had another idea… You could make this pinwheel dessert, wrap it tightly in plastic wrap and freeze it for those, “what-you-didn’t-tell-me-that-we-are-suppose-to-bring-a-dessert”…. get out of jail times! lol

If you really want to be an efficient rawk-star, you could pre-make cookie doughs and freeze them.  And let’s face it… raw cookie dough, a spoon, and a really good movie are just about as good as life gets.   Anyway, I hope you enjoy the recipe and keep in touch if you give it a try.  Blessings, amie sue  Oh wait… I had another idea… You could make this pinwheel dessert, wrap it tightly in plastic wrap and freeze it for those, “what-you-didn’t-tell-me-that-we-are-suppose-to-bring-a-dessert”…. get out of jail times! lol

Ingredients:


3 cups gluten-free, rolled oats

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 cup natural peanut butter

1/2 cup raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1/4 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar

1/4 cup cold pressed coconut oil

1 1/2 tsp vanilla extract

Strawberry Banana Fruit Leather


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the oats, cinnamon, and salt.  Process until the oats are broken down into a small crumble / flour-like texture.

Remove the lid and add the peanut butter, agave, honey, coconut oil, and vanilla.  Process until the dough collects into a ball as it spins.

Be careful that you don’t over process the dough or it will become oily.

If the dough remains crumbly, add a tablespoon of water.




Place a piece of plastic wrap on the counter top and put the ball of cookie dough in the center.

Cover with another piece of plastic wrap and roll the dough out so it is a little bit larger than the fruit leather.




Lay the fruit leather on top of the dough and trim the extra cookie dough from the edges.

Starting at one end, tuck and roll into a tight log shape.

Wrap in plastic wrap and chill overnight. It is much easier to slice when thoroughly chilled.

Slice and enjoy!

This can also be stored in the freezer for future events!

The cookies will last longer stored in the fridge for up to 2 weeks and up to 3 months in the freezer.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Click (here) for my thoughts on raw agave nectar.

Raw honey isn’t vegan but I still use now and again.  Read (here) why I like to.

Learn about the wonderful characteristics of Raw Coconut Nectar (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



