Vanilla Macaroons
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/vanilla-macaroons/



	Vanilla Macaroons

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Ok, this recipe is a must-have,  keep it in your arsenal of “people-pleasing recipes!”  The delicate flavor of vanilla is so faint, that it almost has a hint of a sugar cookie taste.

To be honest I made these cookies 2 weeks ago but ran out of time to make a frosting for the centers.  Today, I saw them in the fridge and thought, “Oooh no, I hope they are still good!”  Sure enough, they still tasted amazing!

I whipped up some vanilla frosting and sandwiched it between two macaroon cookies.  It looked so darn good I had to take a bite and then all the frosting squished out the sides.   No worries, I lapped it up just fine. :)

For those of you who can demonstrate self-control,  slip them back into an airtight container and place them in the fridge or freezer to firm them up.  I have a whole wheel of flavors rolling around in my head already, so stay tuned.  I see more macaroons in our future.  This recipe was inspired by Everyday Raw Desserts.

I have made these with raw agave powder but I now make them with Markus Sweet to help reduce the amount of sugar we are consuming. It’s classified as an antioxidant that fights free radicals. It passes right through the body without being absorbed and has no effect on the gastrointestinal tract.

It tastes like brown sugar with a hint of caramel. Zero calories, zero glycemic so it doesn’t raise blood sugar or insulin. Another reason I have started to use it is that it doesn’t feed Candida or yeast. Use whichever sweetener you feel comfortable with.  I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please share your experience below if you make them.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 20-21 (1 Tbsp each)

Macaroons:


1 cup (100 g) shredded coconut, powdered

1 cup (120  g) raw cashew flour

1/2 cup (100 g) Markus Sweet (powdered) or Erythritol

3 Tbsp (60 g) maple syrup

1/4 cup (58 g) water

1/2 tsp (2 g) vanilla extract

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt


Delicate Vanilla Frosting:


1 cup raw cashews, soak 2+ hours

1 1/8 cup young Thai coconut milk

1/2 cup raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 Tbsp sunflower powder lecithin


Preparation:

Macaroons:


In the food processor combine the coconut flour, cashew flour, and powdered sweetener.  Pulse together to mix.

You can use a fine almond flour in place if the cashews if need be. Both work great.

Powder dried, unsweetened coconut shreds to a flour-like texture.

If you use Markus Sweet, grind it down to a finer powder in a Magic Bullet, dry Vitamix carafe, or spice grinder. This will remove any grittiness that it may add.

Grind the dried coconut into a flour-like texture in a small grinder.




Add the liquid sweetener, water, and vanilla. Process until it creates a nice smooth batter.

Fill a 1 Tbsp (20 g) cookie scoop with batter and level off the top.

Place the cookie on the teflex sheet that comes with your dehydrator.  I made the mistake of placing them on the mesh sheet.  It worked OK, but it was a bugger to get the cookies off of it.  Please learn from my mistake.  I sure did. :)

If you don’t have a cookie scoop, roll approx. 1 Tbsp of batter into a ball and slightly flatten it out onto the teflex sheet.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for one hour and then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for up to 16 hrs.

Keep checking on them they reach the dryness level that you desire.

Mine turned out nice and chewy with a slightly moist center.




Store in a sealed container in the fridge to extend the shelf life.  Mine were in there for 2 weeks while I was waiting to take the time to make the center filling and they still tasted amazing.


 Delicate Vanilla Frosting:


Drain the soaked cashews and place in a high-powered blender.  Add the coconut milk, sweetener, lemon juice, vanilla, and salt.  Blend until creamy smooth.

Depending on the blender this can take 1-3 minutes.




With the blender running, drizzle in the coconut oil.  Once that is well-incorporated add the lecithin and finish blending.

Chill the frosting in the fridge for 30 minutes or longer so it can firm up.

Frost the cookies and enjoy!

I opted to drizzle some chocolate on top… optional but it sure looks lovely.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


Sorry for the different photo color temperatures. I rely on natural lighting. Oy-vey! :)


		
		
			
				
			
				
				Create 1 Tbsp sized balls. 
				
			
				
			
				
				Roll and slightly flatten.
				

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



