Almond Chocolate & Coffee Biscuit Cookies (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/almond-chocolate-coffee-biscuit-cookies/



	Almond Chocolate & Coffee Biscuit Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Are you a cookie dunker?  If you are, let’s gather around and stand together so that we may be comforted by being in the presence of like-minded company.  :)  Or do you have some other favorite food that you fancy dunking in milk, coffee or tea?   I don’t eat cookies very often but I have been known to enjoy a good dunk.

As a little girl, I remember visiting my great grandparents in the winter time, which was unusual since I spent most of my summers there. During that visit, my dad also came to visit and he took me out for a snowmobile ride.   This was a real treat… you see my parents divorced when I was 4 years old. So having these rare opportunities of seeing him, well, they were very special for me.

To be honest, I really don’t remember seeing a whole lot during our excursion.  I was stuffed in a snowmobile suit that left me looking and feeling like the Michelin man. Click (here) so you have an image locked into your mind.

I bounced all over as I desperately tried to hold onto my dad who was navigating our way through the snowy trail. Imagine a marshmallow trying to wrap its imaginary arms around a stick, that was me. lol Regardless of my struggling attempts to see our surroundings and the never-ending battle of trying to hang on… I had a wonderful time.

Once we got back to the house, it took me a good ten minutes to de-robe and once the thrill of the ride had passed, we realized that we were chilled to the bone. Bless great grandma’s heart… she anticipated this and had hot chocolate steaming on the stovetop for us and a plate piled high with buttered toast.   We sat around the table, sipping our hot chocolate and dipping our toast into it.  It May sound like an odd combination but it was heavenly.   If you have a favorite combination of dunking… I love to hear it.

Coffee in my Cookie?

I am sure as you have seen the use of coffee in sweet recipes or even savory ones. Whether it be brewed coffee, instant coffee granules, or coffee extract, they all have their place.

The reason is not necessary to create a coffee flavor but rather to enhance the chocolatey flavor. If you are sensitive to coffee or don’t want to use it because it’s not 100% raw, you can omit it altogether.

Beets in my cookie?

Don’t lose faith in me yet. :) So I  added two tablespoons of beet juice to my cookie… what’s the big deal?! hehe   First, let me put your mind at ease,  you won’t even detect the beet flavor in the cookie.  I love beets, but trust me, I don’t want to eat a beet-flavored cookie. Not only do beets add some good nutrients, but they also deepen the rich chocolate-brown color. That’s my story and I am sticking to it! Enjoy and have a blessed day, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 24 cookies

Dry Ingredients:


2 cup almond meal/flour

1 cup raw cashew meal/flour

1/3 cup coconut flakes, fine shred

1/4 raw cacao powder

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Wet Ingredients:


1/3 cup maple syrup

1 vanilla bean pod, diced

1/2 tsp coffee extract or 2 Tbsp espresso powder

2 Tbsp fresh beet juice (optional)


Hand Mix In:


1/4 cup raw cacao nibs


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almonds, cashews,  coconut, cacao powder, cinnamon, salt, and pulse together.

Add the sweetener, vanilla, coffee extract, and beet juice.  Process until it starts sticking together and forms a ball.

Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and place in the freezer for at least 40 minutes or until chilled through.  This step is very important.  If you attempt to skip it you will find the dough too sticky to deal with.  You could also place the dough in the fridge overnight if you wanted to do this in phases.

Once chilled, line your surface with plastic wrap and place the chilled dough ball in the center.

Cover with another piece of plastic, then start to roll the dough out to about 1/4″ thick.

Remove the top plastic piece and using cookie cutters, cut out your shape(s) and transfer them to the mesh sheet that comes along with your dehydrator.




Dust with cacao powder and place a few cacao nibs in the center, gently pressing them in.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for roughly 10-16 hours or until desired dryness is reached.

Store in an air-tight sealed container for 1-2 weeks



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




		
		
			
				
			
				
				Roll the dough to 1/2″ thickness.
				
			
				
			
				
				Create the biscuit shape.
				

			
				
			
				
				I used these cookie cutters
				
			
				
			
				
				Place on the mesh sheet.
				

			
				
			
				
				Sprinkle raw cacao powder and nibs on top and dehydrate.
				
			
				
			
				
				Enjoy with a cup of warm chocolate almond milk.
				

		

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



