Almond Butter Cookies (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/cookies-nugget-balls/almond-butter-cookies/



	Almond Butter Cookies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The Almond Butter Cookies came into creation last night while I was making raw peanut butter cookies.  I simply ran out of fresh ground peanut butter and had some almond butter staring me down!

So, I used the same recipe as the peanut butter cookies except I swapped out the “butters” and used almond extract instead of vanilla.  The end result was a wonderful masterpiece.  They quickly became a big hit.  They have a hint of a buttery flavor in them.

These cookies are soft, chewy and if not careful, they will stick to one another.  To balance the texture and prevent them from sticking to their nearby partner, I coated them with crushed almonds.  I love the chewy and crunchy textures together.

If you decide not to coat them with the crushed almonds, you will need to store them in a single layer with parchment or wax paper in between them.  They will feel a little tacky.  I made these cookies with my 2 Tbsp cookie scoop, which is the perfect size.  Raw foods are more dense and rich in flavor.  We are conditioned to believe that bigger is better.

Use this cookie base as a vessel to experiment with other flavored extracts.  I used almond here but I have also used orange, butterscotch, maple and several other flavors.

5/21/15 I updated this recipe by adding new photos and cleaned up the ingredient and preparation list.  I didn’t change the ingredients, just made the recipe easier to follow. I have learned a lot since Dec. 2010. hehe

Ingredients:

Yields 26 (2 Tbsp) cookies


3 cups gluten-free, rolled oats

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup almond butter

1/2 cup raw agave nectar

1/4 cup raw honey

1/4 cup cold pressed coconut oil

1 1/2  tsp almond extract


Preparation:


Place the oats and salt in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until it reaches a flour-like texture.

Add the almond butter, agave, honey, coconut oil, and extract. Process until the batter starts to roll into a large ball.

If the batter feels really dry, add a tablespoon of water.




Form balls, roll in the crushed almonds and lightly flatten.

You can eat these right away or dehydrate them at 115 degrees (F) for up to 8 hrs.

They won’t become crispy. But the outsides will firm up some.




Store in an airtight container on the counter for 1 week,  in the fridge for 2 weeks or in the freezer for up to 3 months.  Be sure that they are sealed so fridge and freezer odors don’t get absorbed into them.


Oat Information:


Are oats gluten-free?

Are oats raw?

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?


 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



