Country Living Savory Crackers (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/country-living-savory-crackers/



	Country Living Savory Crackers

													    
    


				

Country Living Savory Crackers


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Raw crackers are great staples to keep on hand. They will feed that craving for crunchy textures when it hits.  In an airtight container, they should keep for 2-3 weeks.

The base for this cracker is the almond pulp which gives the cracker lightness, major crunch, and a nice firm foundation for any cheese or spread.

If you choose to use ground almonds in place of the pulp, the cracker will much more heavy and dense.  Not to say that is a bad thing, just different from what I have created here.

This cracker is savory but not too strong in flavor that would overpower whatever dip or spread you decide to serve it with. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 75 (2×2”) crackers


1 1/2 cups raw sunflower seeds, soaked & dehydrated, divided

1/2 cup raw pumpkin seeds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup ground flax seed

1/2 cup nutritional yeast

1 Tbsp ground onion powder

1 Tbsp ground garlic powder

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

6 cups moist, packed almond pulp

1/4 cup coconut aminos

2 Tbsp lemon juice


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the”S” blade, break the sunflower and pumpkin seeds down to flour.

Add the flax, nutritional yeast, onion & garlic powder, and salt.  Pulse to mix together.  Pour into a large bowl.

Add to the bowl the almond pulp, coconut aminos, and lemon juice.  Mix well with hands.  It’s just more fun than with a spoon!

Spread the batter onto the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator about 1/4″ thick.

Square up the edges nice and straight, then score the crackers into the desired shape and size.

I used a long metal ruler to score the crackers.  You can use a pizza cutter or knife, just be careful that you don’t cut the teflex sheet.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours, flip them onto the mesh sheet and peel the teflex sheet off.  Continue drying for another 6-8 hours or until dry.

Once cool, snap the crackers and apart and store in an airtight container for 2 weeks.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 










© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



