Sweet Onion Sesame Crackers
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/sweet-onion-sesame-crackers/



	Sweet Onion Sesame Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

These Sweet Onion Sesame Crackers are seriously addicting.  I will point out that they are powerfully pungent with onion… you know, the type of power that just might stick with you the rest of the day… constantly reminding you that you enjoyed some really amazing crackers earlier on.

But here’s the deal… the right or wrong onion can make or break this recipe.  I used a red onion for this recipe. They are assertive and spicy when raw. But given the opportunity, I would also use Vidalia or white onions.

Vidalia onion are the lowest in pyruvic acid, which when exposed to air, makes your eyes tear up. They are known to be mild, super-sweet, and crisp which makes them ideal for eating raw.

White onions are a better choice than yellow onions. They have a crisp texture and mild flavor.  They too are great for eating raw, making them a great contender for this recipe.

The bottom line that I can’t stress enough is to make sure that you taste test the onions before using them. I don’t recommend an onion that is too pungent and hot in flavor.  It can cause for a bitter taste to take over and that isn’t any fun.

These crackers are sweet… perfectly sweet if you ask me.  If you are sensitive to the taste of sweetness or need to stay away from all sugars, just omit that part of the recipe. The dynamics of the cracker will change but different doesn’t equate to bad.. just not as I had intended for this recipe in overall flavor and texture. You can also make these crackers nut free… just replace the almonds with equal amounts of sunflower seeds.  I hope you enjoy these crackers and please leave a comment below. Have a glorious day, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 34 crackers


1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked & dehydrated

3 cups (450 g) diced red onion

1/4 cup coconut aminos

3 Tbsp maple syrup

4 garlic (10 g) fresh garlic

1-2 Tbsp 10 g fresh ginger

2 Tbsp white sesame seeds, soaked

2 Tbsp black sesame seeds, soaked

Thinly sliced onion for decoration


Preparation:


In the food processor, combine the almonds and sunflower seeds.  Process until they are broken down to a small crumble.

Add the onion, aminos, maple syrup, garlic, ginger, and sesame seeds. Process until it becomes a well-mixed batter.

You can use any soy substitute in place of the raw coconut aminos.

Feel free to use any liquid sweetener if you don’t wish to use maple syrup.

Do not use powdered ginger in place of the fresh… the two taste very different.




Line a dehydrator tray with a non-stick sheet and spread the batter out from edge to edge, roughly 1/4″ thick.

Score into desired sized crackers.

Optional: lay the thinly sliced onion on top of each cracker and gently press it into the dough.

Sprinkle coarse sea salt on top.

Dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for up to 20 hours.  Check on them after 8 hours and as soon as they can snap apart, remove them.

Allow the crackers to cool before storing in an airtight container.




Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



