Raw Rosemary Coastal Crackers
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/rosemary-coastal-crackers/



	Rosemary Coastal Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Although most of us grew up believing that crackers only came from boxes, I am here to tell you that the humble cracker can be vastly improved upon with a homemade healthy approach.

These Rosemary Coastal Crackers are a sweet and savory blend of walnuts, almonds, cranberries, and rosemary.  Combined they bring you a slightly sweet, slightly salty and slightly savory cracker.   I am often creating crackers that are more neutral in taste so we can pile on flavorful toppings that won’t be heavily influenced by the taste of the cracker.  But this cracker… this cracker can stand alone in the flavor department.

However, I did create a special spread for this cracker because I simply just couldn’t help myself.  Raw Rosemary and Cranberry “Cream Cheese” Spread!  A match made in culinary heaven.

Gosh, just the other day I was sharing some childhood memories with Bob about crackers.  My love for decorating and playing house started at a very young age. Even though I always had my own room, I had to make it into two rooms.  I did this by turning my closets into mini bedrooms, art rooms, kitchens, and so forth. That 16 square feet

Even though I always had my own room, I had to make it into two rooms.  I did this by turning my closets into mini bedrooms, art rooms, kitchens, and so forth. That 16 square feet was prime real-estate!  I remember one phase that I went through, where I set it up as a tea parlor where I served myself saltine crackers soaked in water and sipped pickle juice. lol  Ah, the life of a child. :)

Ingredients:

Yields 36

Almond milk sludge:


1 1/2 cups water

3/4 cup raw almonds, soaked


Cracker base:


1 cup dried unsweetened cranberries, diced

1/2 cup raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup ground flaxseed

2 Tbsp chia seed

1/2 tsp black pepper

1/2 tsp celery salt

2 1/2 cups packed, moist almond pulp

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

6 Tbsp maple syrup

2 Tbsp minced fresh rosemary


Topping:


Minced rosemary

Chopped sunflower seeds


Preparation:

Almond milk sludge:


After the almonds are done soaking, drain and rinse the almonds.  Place in a high-powered blender.

Add the water and blend for 30-60 seconds.  Set aside.


Cracker base:


Dice the cranberries into small bits.  Don’t rely on the food processor to do this job.  They will just stick to the blades and just spin around and around and around.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse together the walnuts, sunflower seeds, chia seeds, flax, pepper and celery salt.

Add the almond pulp, almond milk sludge, vinegar, sweetener (of choice) and rosemary.   Process into a thick batter that is almost paste-like.

Add the cranberries and pulse a few times, just enough to mix them into the batter.

Divide in half and spread out on two teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator.  Spread to about 1/4″ thick.  Square of the edges and score into preferred shapes and sizes.

Optional but I did this… I took a meat tenderizer and stamped each cracker square.

Sprinkle extra minced rosemary and sunflower seeds on top and gently pat into the batter.

Add a coarse finishing salt on top.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for up to 16 hours or until dry.  Keep in mind that once they cool, they crisp up some.   So it a good idea to pull a cracker out every once in a while and let it cool to room temp to test it for doneness.

Store in airtight container on the counter for 5-7 days or in the freezer for 1-2 months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



