Fruity Flax Snack'n Crackers - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/fruity-flax-snack-crackers/



	Fruity Flax Snack’n Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I really should have named these, “Fruit Flexible Flax Snack’n Cracker.” They are not your typical crunchy cracker… they are chewy. A new wonderful mouth sensation when it comes to cracker eating.

A simple snack that brings you complex nutrition. With each bite, you are taking in omega 3’s, a hefty load of fiber, potassium, and monolaurin which is a great antiviral, antiprotozoal and antibacterial activity that helps fight against intestinal worms, parasites, lipid-coated viruses, and other gastrointestinal tract infections.  This just touches the tip of the ice-burg of benefits that your body will receive when enjoying this sweet treat.

No added sugars are required thanks to the natural sweetness of the coconut water and dried fruits. The only word of caution that I do have is to make sure that you drink plenty of water with each cracker.

Dehydrated foods, in general, is reason enough to increase your water intake, but you also need to drink more when consuming flax seeds.  They are referred to as “nature’s scrubbers”… meaning that they pass through the colon, collecting everything in its way… navigating through the intestinal system, looking for an exit. :) Water will help to flush them which will aid in a healthier digestive system.

I hope you enjoy this simple recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


2 cups flax seeds

4 cups young Thai coconut water

1 cup raisins

1 cup cranberries, dried

1 cup pineapple or mango, dried

1 cup shredded coconut

3/4 cup ground flax seeds

1 Tbsp Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Add all of the ingredients together in a large bowl except for the ground flax.

You will be using the coconut water to help the flax create a gel, plus it will rehydrate the dried fruits.  Add more coconut water if needed.  You want about 1/4″ of liquid above the mixture.

Soak for 8 hours

Add the ground flax seeds and mix by hand really well.

Let your mixture sit for about 15 minutes.  This will give the ground flax time to really thicken things up.

Spread 2 cups of the mixture on the teflex sheet that comes along with your dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then decrease to 115 degrees for approx. 16 hours.

This cracker won’t become crisp, it will remain chewy.




Store in a glass container in the fridge to extend the shelf life.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



