Raw Crisp Rosemary Flatbread Crackers (version 2)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/crisp-rosemary-flatbread-crackers/



	Crisp Rosemary Flatbread Crackers – version 2

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

A few weeks ago, we were invited out for a lovely dinner with a dear, dear couple.  When the waiter brought our drinks, he also placed in front of us a plate with some fantastic looking flatbreads on it.  I was warned that it was addictive.

Fortunate for me, I don’t eat gluten because I really can’t afford any more addictions — Hehe (nor does my body agree with it).  As the flatbread disappeared, right down to the last crumb, I was already devising a raw recipe in my head.

I make raw loaves of bread all the time, I make crackers all the time, but I never tried to make a crispy flatbread cracker before. It’s not all that different from making a raw cracker, other than I needed to create a dough that could be rolled out into a thin flatbread, a dough that wouldn’t crumble or remain too soft.  I wanted it crispy!  I wanted a plate of crispy flatbread set down in front of me that I could devour and even lick the plate clean… if I felt so inclined.  lol

I made the batter and started to tinker around with it.  I found that it was holding its shape quite well, so I decided to make the crackers in a couple of different ways, just to give you some varieties.  I split the dough in half and made regular-shaped crackers with it.  You can see a photo below.

After completing those, I moved onto the flatbread.  Most flatbreads are irregular shaped, and for me, that is hard. That is like asking me to color outside the lines. Lol Me, the one who uses a ruler to measure off the perfect sized cracker, had to make odd-shaped crackers.

I chanted to myself, “You can do this; you can do this!”  I took 1/4 cup of dough, rolled it in a perfect circle, after I was happy with my perfect ball, I rolled it into the ideal cylinder shape, after I was pleased with my ideal cylinder shape, I placed it on the teflex sheet.  I laid another teflex sheet on top and took my rolling pin out.  I laid the roller down and smushed the heck out of my perfect cylinder! Lol Smushed it, I say!   I lifted the teflex sheet and was there was a smile from one ear to the other… “Look, mom, I “colored outside the lines!”   I  know this may all sound a little silly to you, but this is how my brain works.

After creating many different shaped flatbreads,  I started to transfer them to the mesh sheet that comes with my dehydrator.   That is when I got to thinking… one thing that I love about baked crackers or breads is the crispy bubbles that form and how they bubble and curl on the edges.   With no yeast in site, with no high-temperature heat to curl the edges… I decided to “help it” along.   Rather than laying them all flat, I created little pockets, folds, and lumps.  Perfect!  I can’t wait to make more varieties of crispy flatbreads… shoot; I may never make a straight-lined cracker again… well, ok, let’s not get carried away here.  :)  Enjoy, have fun and smile a lot while you make these.   It will be worth it.

Ingredients:

Yields a lot!


2 cups raw sunflower seeds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup flax seeds, divided

2 cups moist, packed almond pulp

1 cup water

1 Tbsp ground onion powder

1 Tbsp  ground garlic powder

2 Tbsp fresh rosemary

1/2 Tbsp thyme

1/2 Tbsp minced dried onion

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3 Tbsp lemon juice

1/4 tsp liquid stevia


Topping:


additional sunflower seeds, flax seeds, chopped rosemary, and coarse sea salt


Preparation:

Preparing the batter:


In the food processor, fitted with the ”S” blade, break down the sunflower seeds to flour.

Grind 1/2 cup of the flax seeds in a Bullet or small coffee grinder.  Add the ground and the remaining 1/2 cup of whole flax seeds to the food processor with the ground sunflower seeds.

Add the onion powder, garlic powder, rosemary, thyme, dried onion, and salt.  Pulse together till mixed.  Tip: Approximately one teaspoon of dried rosemary equals one tablespoon of fresh. (Approx. 1 tsp dry = 1 Tbsp fresh)

In a large bowl combine the almond pulp, water, lemon juice, and stevia.  Stir together.

Add the dry ingredients from the food processor and mix well with hands to ensure everything gets mixed well.

Now the fun is about to begin….



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Shaping ideas:


Cracker style ~

Spread the batter onto the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator about 1/4″ thick or spread on parchment paper on a baking tray if cooking in the oven.

Square up the edges nice and straight, then score the crackers into the desired shape and size.  I used a long metal ruler to score the crackers.  You can use a pizza cutter or knife, just be careful that you don’t cut the teflex sheet.




Flatbread style ~

Line your counter with parchment paper or use the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  Give it a light coat of coconut or olive oil.

Create approximately 1/4 cup sized balls of batter in the palm of your hand.  Shape slightly into a cylinder shape and place it on the prepared teflex sheet.

Place another piece of parchment paper or teflex on top and with a rolling pin flatten the dough out, leaving it about 1/4″ thick.  I did two at a time.

Gently transfer to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  Repeat the process until all the dough is used up.




Scatter a little of the chopped rosemary sunflower seeds and the coarse sea salt on top, pressing in slightly, so they adhere.


Cooking methods; dehydrated or oven cooked


Dehydrator method:

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours, flip them onto the mesh sheet and peel the teflex sheet off.  Continue drying for another 6-8 hours or until dry.

Once cool, snap the crackers and apart and store them in an airtight container for 2 weeks.




Oven method:

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

Place the crackers on the baking pan and bake for 30-40 minutes.






Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



Create crispy crackers.

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



