Vegetable Bouillon Crackers
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/vegetable-bouillon-crackers/



	Vegetable Bouillon Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Today’s cracker was inspired by my second spice drawer, the one that holds the “big guns”.  The big guns are those spices that have a specific calling.  You know the oddball stuff. :)

I have always known the importance of keeping your spices current and fresh.  One really ought to replace them every 6 months, but do we?  I don’t.  But, I came across two spices that had lost their smell and their flavor!  So this got me thinking, that I really needed to go through and start using them up.

That is how I landed on the idea of using vegetable bouillon cubes in a recipe.  I have provided a link below to the exact ones that I used if you are interested.  They are organic.  If you don’t have them on hand and don’t want to buy them, you can play around with a spice mix to replace them.

I looked up the ingredients in these and it is as follows; Sea Salt, Yeast Extract, Organic Non-Hydrogenated Palm Oil, Organic Garlic, Organic Basil, Organic Parsley, Organic Tumeric, Organic Lovage, Organic Celery, Organic Dill.   I am not sure exactly what measurements of each to use, so you will have to add a little of “this and that” to find the right balance for your palette.

I was very pleased with how these turned out.  I don’t find them strong in any particular flavor which makes them a great “base” cracker.  They will be able to handle many different types of spreads and raw cheeses.  I hope you enjoy this recipe.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 36 crackers




2 Vegan Vegetable Bouillon cubes

1 cup hot water

2 cups almond flour

1 cup cashew flour

3 Tbsp chia or flax seed, ground

3 Tbsp nutritional yeast

coarse sea salt





Preparation:



Dissolve the bouillon cubes in 1 cup of hot water.  Set aside and put the rest of the recipe together.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse together the almond flour, cashew flour, flax or chia seeds (I used flax), and nutritional yeast.

Once the bouillon cubes are dissolved, add the liquid to the food processor and process until the batter turns into a paste.  This is going to be sticky.  You can always add a little more water if needed.  Add 1 Tbsp at a time.

Spread the cracker dough on the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  You will need to dunk the spatula in water periodically as you work the dough.  Square up the edges and score the crackers into the desired size.

Sprinkle coarse sea salt on top.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour.  Remove and with a fork, make cracker markings (as shown below)  Return to the dehydrator and continue drying at 115 degrees (F) for 10+ hours until dry.

Store in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks or longer.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.







 

 

 

 

 














© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



