Sesame Sunflour Nori Crackers (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/sesame-sunflour-nori-crackers/



	Sesame Sunflour Nori Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

A savory snack that has a hint of the sea. I am always looking for ways to increase the nutritional value of every bite that I take… as well as my husband’s. He is a huge fan of seaweed so I knew that this would be right up his alley.

Nori’s reputation as a natural health food is firmly established in Japan where approximately 10 billion sheets are produced and consumed annually.

The amount of nutrition contained in nori is the highest among seaweeds, and it contains as much protein as soybeans.  Nori also has 12 kinds of vitamins including  A and B vitamins and is known as “The Reservoir of Vitamins” because few other foods contain as many vitamins as nori.


Vitamin A ~ You can consume enough vitamin A per day with just two sheets of nori.

Vitamin B ~ Two sheets of nori also contains Vitamin B1 and B2 in amounts equivalent to 50~60 grams of pork, a sufficient daily amount.

Vitamin C ~ Nori has twice the vitamin C as the same amount of tangerines.

Iron ~ Two sheets of nori contain an amount of iron equal to 600 cc of milk or one egg.


When creating these nori crackers, you can make them as thin or thick as you want. You can even roll them into tubes. I have done that in the past. If you decide to make crackers the outer edges will look all wrinkly… if the presentation is something that you are aiming for, just trim the edges with a sharp knife. Eat those shavings and nobody will know any different. hehe

I should also share that I don’t usually dry these to 100%. They are very firm but have a little softness in the center. To me, the flavors are a tad more intense when softer, which Bob likes. Try them at different drying stages to find the flavor that you like. Enjoy, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 12 crackers


2 cups sunflour

1 cup flax flour

1/4 cup toasted sesame seeds

2 Tbsp dried onion flakes

2 Tbsp Italian seasoning

1 tsp garlic powder

1/4- 1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup water

4 sheets raw nori seaweed sheets



Preparation:



In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, place the sunflour, flax flour,  sesame seeds, onion flakes, Italian seasoning, garlic powder, and salt in the bowl and pulse together.

Italian seasoning ~ Make your own with 6 tsp dried oregano + 3 tsp dried basil + 3 tsp dried thyme.

Dried onion flakes ~ Use 1-2 tsp onion powder  or 1/2 cup fresh minced onion

Sesame seeds ~ black sesame seeds are stronger in flavor.   White unhulled sesame seeds are mild in flavor and slightly more bitter




Add the water and process until a thick batter forms.

Divide the batter into two equal halves.

Layout 2 nori sheets on the counter (shiny side down) and place half of the batter on one sheet and the remaining batter on the second sheet.

Press the batter out towards the corners with your fingers.

Cover both with another sheet of nori and with a rolling pin, firmly and evenly roll the batter out towards the edges of the nori sheets.




Place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees for 1 hour.

Remove and cut into desired shapes and sizes.

Return to the dehydrator and continue drying at 115 degrees for 20 -/+ hours.  This will depend on the thickness of your cracker.




Once cooled to room temperature, place in an airtight container, and store on the counter for 5-7 days.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



