Creamy Kale Crackers
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/creamy-kale-crackers/



	Creamy Kale Crackers

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, grain-free~

Do you ever find yourself mumbling… “Man, I just can’t get enough kale! I crave that stuff!” I occasionally have, but I can’t say that kale is something that I often crave. I do enjoy it, and I do work on finding ways getting into my (our) diet.

We enjoy massaged kale salads, which breaks down the cell walls of the leaf making it more edible and digestible but most of the time we end up steaming it for digestion purposes. Bob can take down a whole head of kale if it’s steamed, but just a small amount if raw.

If you struggle with eating an all raw diet, that’s ok. We don’t beat ourselves up here at the house of Nouveau Raw. My message on this site always has and always will remain the same; eat as many unprocessed foods as you can, eat organic when at all possible, prepare all food with love and most importantly eat according to your own health needs and ability.

We are all not cut out to eat exactly the same way. Some handle all raw, some can’t, some need cooked foods, some need animal protein. We should never judge how another person eats. Instead, use that same energy to help those around you in eating a better-balanced diet.

Some people can go balls-to-the-wall and change their diet overnight… most can’t. For many, it’s a gradual process, and I truly appreciate that. Because changing your diet isn’t just about what you physically put in your grocery buggy. You have to approach it mentally, emotionally, and socially. Without incorporating all aspects, you can easily set yourself up for failure, and that doesn’t do a darn toot’n thing in moving you towards loving yourself.

*steps off soapbox* Sorry about that little rant… wait… I am not sorry. Sometimes I just feel compelled to share my deep thoughts on this matter. I never want a single person to feel frustrated with their own efforts. Without effort, we can never achieve success. So be proud of every healthy morsel that lands in your mouth… whether it be one bite, two bites, or the whole plate full. I am here to help support, encourage, and inspire you every step chew of the way. :)

Before I let you go… these crackers turned out quite awesome if I may say so myself. They are super crunchy and sturdy. So they will hold up to any topping that you slather on top. I made a huge batch and froze about three-fourths of them. Then I just popped a few out as needed. No need to thaw them out, they are ready to go. I hope you enjoy this nutrient-rich cracker. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients: 

yields: 24-36 crackers (depending on size)



1 large head (195 g) kale, shredded

1/2 cup (70 g) diced red onion

1 cup (225 g) water

1/3 cup (70 g) fresh-squeezed lemon juice

2 cups (134 g) raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2 Tbsp (11 g) nutritional yeast

2 – 4 (4-8 g) garlic cloves

1/2 – 1 tsp (3-7 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup (52 g) organic, cold-pressed olive oil

3 cups (274 g) shredded, dried coconut




Preparation:



Wash, remove the stems and chiffonade the kale into small pieces.

In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, place the kale inside and pulse until it reaches a small shred.  Don’t pulse too much to where it turns into a paste. Set aside.

Place the ingredients in the following order into the blender; water, lemon juice, cashews, nutritional yeast, garlic, and salt. Blend until smooth.

Depending on the blender, this can take 1-3 minutes.

Adding the liquid first will help the blades move more freely.




While the blender is running, drizzle in the olive oil until well mixed.

Add the sauce to the food processor along with kale, onion,  and coconut. Process until well mixed.

Spread the mixture 1/4″ thick on the nonstick sheets that come with the dehydrator.

Make sure that you spread it evenly, so it dries evenly.

Wipe the edges clean.

Score the crackers into desired shapes and sizes.  You can use a pizza cutter or a long metal ruler to create the score marks.

Sprinkle salt on top.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for 10+ hours… until dry and crispy.

Halfway through the drying process, flip the crackers over onto the mesh sheet and peel off the nonstick sheet. Flipping will help the airflow circulate around the crackers and speed up the dry time.

Snap apart and let cool before storing in an airtight bag/container.

They should last several weeks in the pantry and can be frozen for 1-3 months.  If they start to soften due to humidity, throw them back in the dehydrator to crisp up.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


I have to apologize for the photos below, not my best work. The natural lighting for photo taking was not on my side. :)


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



