Watermelon Bliss Coconut Crackers (raw, vegan, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/watermelon-bliss-coconut-crackers/



	Watermelon Bliss Coconut Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I know what your thinking… watermelon? In a cracker?  As my sister would say, “IKR?” (I know right?)  I will admit, even I scratched my own head when I dreamed up this light, crunchy, sturdy, airy cracker.   But I love watermelon and would never pass up an opportunity to create a new recipe with it.

Nut-free • Seed-free • Gluten-free

It really saddens me anymore just how many people suffer from food allergies. Me included.  I do my best to create delicious recipes for everyone to enjoy but I know that task is next to impossible.  So for those of you who are allergic to nuts, seeds, or gluten… this might be a fun option for you.  If you are allergic to coconut… this recipe isn’t for you.  But not to fear, I have oodles of other cracker recipes that don’t include coconut.

I was pleasantly surprised in just how much the watermelon flavor came through once dehydrated.  I purposely keep them from Bob because he can’t stand watermelon, but guess what. He really enjoyed these.  I even found him carrying around a bag of them, snacking on them.

The key to making them flavorful is to use a ripe watermelon and don’t cut down to close to the rind.  The deeper the red, the deeper the pigments, which contain the best amounts of lycopene and beta-carotene for eye health.  The rind can taste bitter, which is fine to juice, but right now we don’t want that flavor in our cracker.

We all know that watermelon is about 90% water so don’t be alarmed when you see a little extra fluid pool around the cracker as it is in the dehydrator.  This won’t affect the cracker and will evaporate as it dries.

Even those these crackers are great on their own, I went ahead and created a salsa that would pair wonderfully with them.  Be sure to check out my Watermelon and Basil Salsa.   Enjoy and crunch on!

Ingredients:

yields 32 crackers (2 sheets)


4 cups (660 g) organic watermelon

2 cups (350 g) organic strawberries

2 Tbsp agave or other liquid sweeteners, optional

1 Tbsp lime juice

1 /2 tsp  Himalayan pink salt

4 cups (365 g) shredded coconut


Preparation:


Blend the watermelon, strawberries, sweetener (if used), lime juice, and salt in a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, until creamy.

Add shredded coconut and process till mixed.

Line the dehydrator tray with a non-stick teflex sheet.

Spread the batter from edge to edge, roughly 1/4″ thick.

Make sure that you spread it evenly so it dried evenly.

Whip the edges clean.

Score the crackers into desired shapes and sizes.  You can use a pizza cutter or a long metal ruler to create the score marks.

Sprinkle coarse sea salt on top of the crackers.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for up to 24 hours… until dry and crispy.

Snap apart and let cool before storing in an airtight bag/container.

They should last several weeks in the pantry and can be frozen for 1-2 months.  If they start to soften due to humidity, throw them back in the dehydrator to crisp up.




Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



