Banana Mulberry Date Crackers (raw, vegan, gluten-free,nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/banana-mulberry-date-crackers/



	Banana Mulberry Date Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Onomatopoeia

I love this word… Onomatopoeia. I can say it over and over and over. It just rolls off the tongue. It means that the sound of a word is similar to the meaning of the same word, like grunt, or clink, or in this case crunch. These particular crackers are slightly sweet, sturdy and very crunchy. Never underestimate the power of the onomatopoeia. If you hear the word “crunchy” or “crispy,” when describing crackers, chances are your brain is already priming you for the experience. I am here to assure you that these crackers won’t let you down.

Sweetened with Fruit

Another goal of mine for these sweet crackers was to use only whole-food sweeteners. So I selected dried dates and mulberries.   Which in the end, gave them kind of a caramel hint. The bananas also help to bump up the sweetness, but they also had the role of binding things together.

Oh, gosh, I almost forgot… I did add a few drops of liquid stevia; this is totally optional.  You have the ultimate control in how sweet or not sweet the crackers are.  One key thing to keep in mind is that the riper the bananas, the sweeter they are.

I should point out that I used dried mulberries in this recipe. I would LOVE to meet a fresh mulberry in person, but I have yet to see them in their completely natural fresh state.  But at least I can enjoy them dried… so no complaining here.  If you are new to them, I highly recommend giving these berries a try. It is always fun to experience new foods. Not only is it a good way to expand your palate but it also helps give you a variety of nutrients.  My hope is that you love these crackers as much as we did. Please let me know.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 49 (2×2″) crackers


1 (140 g) large banana

1/4 cup date paste

1/4 cup water

1 cup (235 g) dried mulberries, rehydrated if needed

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp Ceylon ground cinnamon

10+ drops liquid NuNaturals stevia; to taste

4 cups shredded coconut


Preparation:


Blend the bananas, date paste, water, mulberries, salt, cinnamon and stevia in a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, until creamy.

Add shredded coconut, processing till well mixed.

Line the dehydrator tray with a non-stick teflex sheet.

Spread the batter from edge to edge.

Make sure that you spread it evenly, so it dried evenly. I like to place plastic wrap on top and roll it out nice and compact with a rolling pin.

Wipe the edges clean.

Score the crackers into desired shapes and sizes.  You can use a pizza cutter or a long metal ruler to create the score marks.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for up to 24 hours… until dry and crispy.

Snap apart and let cool before storing in an airtight bag/container.

They should last several weeks in the pantry and can be frozen for 1-2 months.  If they start to soften due to humidity, throw them back in the dehydrator to crisp up.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


I thought you would enjoy a nice close-up taken from the crackers edge.  Enjoy!









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



