Dried Fig, Almond and Oregano Coastal Cracker (raw, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/dried-fig-almond-and-oregano-coastal-cracker/



	Dried Fig, Almond and Oregano Coastal Cracker

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Coastal crackers are a line of crackers that I have developing over time.  I have really been enjoying the whole pairing and matching of ingredients… creating new flavors, at least new to me.

Crackers come in a large array of flavors. We have the plain-Janes that provide the perfect neutral foundation for flavored cheeses and dips…. And then we have the mouth-popping crackers that come in all sorts of flavors.   Each has its place on the cheese and cracker platter.

With a neutral cracker, you can use many tasty kinds of cheese such as my Raw Rosemary and Cranberry “Cream Cheese” Spread, the Raw Sun-dried Tomato and Basil Cheese Spread and last but not limited to… the Vegan Pepper Jack Cheese.

For this delicious cracker I would pair with the Raw “Brie” Cashew Cheese with Rind, Raw Herbed Cashew Cheese or how about the Vegan Swiss Cheese?

As you can see, there is quite a few cheese recipe that one can use.  For more ideas, click (here).

What can you expect from this cracker?  It is sturdy, crunchy and full of rich flavor.  I highly recommend that you use fresh herbs instead of dry ones in this recipe.  I think that really elevated the flavors.  I hope you enjoy this recipe.  Please comment below if you give it a whirl.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 63 crackers

Almond cream:


1 1/2 cups water

3/4 cup raw almonds, soaked


Cracker base:


1 cup dried figs, diced

1/2 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup ground flax seed

2 Tbsp chia seed

1/2 tsp black pepper

1/2 tsp celery salt

2 1/2 cups packed, moist almond pulp

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

5  Tbsp maple syrup

2 Tbsp minced fresh oregano


Topping:


Minced oregano

Chopped sunflower seeds


Preparation:

Almond cream:


After soaking the almonds, drain and discard the soak water.

Add the almonds and water in a high-powered blend, blending until the mixture is thick.  Set aside.


Cracker base:


Dice the figs into small bits. Don’t rely on the food processor to do this job. They will just stick to the blades and just spin around and around and around.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse together the almonds, sunflower seeds, chia seeds, flax, pepper and celery salt.

Add the almond pulp, almond cream, vinegar, sweetener (of choice) and oregano. Process into a thick batter that is almost paste-like.

Divide in half and spread out on two teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator.

Spread to about 1/4″ thick.

Square of the edges and score into preferred shapes and sizes.

Option – to create circular cracker, place 1 Tbsp worth of batter, roll into a ball and place on a nonstick sheet. Then flatten with the base of a drinking glass.

Optional but I did this… I took a meat tenderizer and stamped each cracker square.




Sprinkle extra minced oregano and sunflower seeds on top and gently pat into the batter.

Add a coarse finishing salt on top.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for up to 16 hours or until dry.

Keep in mind that once they cool, they crisp up some. So it a good idea to pull a cracker out every once in a while and let is cool to room temp to test it for doneness.




Store in airtight container on the counter for 5-7 days or in the freezer for 1-2 months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



