Sesame Onion Almond Flax Crackers
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/sesame-onion-almond-flax-crackers/



	Sesame Onion Almond Flax Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

WANT AD:

I am a hardy, strong cracker looking for an appetizing job.  My foundation is firm and I can carry a full load.  I don’t break easily under pressure and my personality isn’t over-powering.  I am really seeking more of a supporting role, rather than being the main attraction.

I do work well one on one but I do much better in a job that requires teamwork.  I have been known to snap under pressure and even if I should crumble in some circumstances, I am confident that you will find me pleasurable.  If you run a check on me you will find that I come from a pretty seedy background.

At times I have been known to go a little nuts but I have what it takes to hold myself together.  So, please, give me a chance, put me on the payroll!

Ingredients:


2 cups flax seed

2 cups raw almond flour

1/3 cup dehydrated onion flakes

2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup black sesame seeds

5 cups water


Preparation:


In a large bowl, combine the flax seeds, almond flour, dried onion flakes, salt, sesame seeds, and water. Stir well, making sure to work out any lumps. Set aside for 30+ minutes to thicken.

The batter will become very thick and there shouldn’t be any standing water in the bowl.




Spread on non-stick dehydrator sheets about 1/4 inch thick. This made 3 (14 x 14) sheets.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour then reduce to 115 degrees (F) degrees for 4-6 hours.

Remove the non-stick sheets and place the crackers upside down on mesh screens. Score and continue to dehydrate at least 8 more hours or until dry.

Allow the crackers to cool and then snap apart.  Store in an air-tight container.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


Check out that seedy texture…




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



