Cardamom Orange and Hazelnut Crackers (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/cardamom-orange-and-hazelnut-crackers/



	Cardamom Orange and Hazelnut Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

These three layers of flavors come together beautifully….cardamom, orange, and hazelnut. You can taste each layer distinctively yet they meld together perfectly.

Before turning to the raw food diet, my knowledge of spices was next to none. I wouldn’t have been able to explain the flavor of cardamom if my life counted on it.

But then one day, I started to read about it… Did you know that cardamom contains chemicals that appear to treat stomach and intestinal spasms and gas, as well as increase the movement of food through the intestine?

Oh my gosh, where has this been all my life! Cardamom comes dried (ground) or fresh.  Keep in mind that the ground cardamom has less flavor than the fresh.  A little goes a long way.  I used freshly ground for this recipe, but one day I hope to try them fresh.

Next in line was the use of Hazelnuts. They are one of those underused and under-appreciate nuts if you ask me.  By the way, they are also known as filberts. This nut falls out of the husk when ripe, about seven to eight months after pollination. They can be used raw or roasted, or ground into a paste,   and are rich in protein and unsaturated fat. Moreover, they contain significant amounts of thiamine and vitamin B6, as well as smaller amounts of other B vitamins.

This cracker recipe creates a firm, snappy, thick cracker that is light in weight but not in flavor. It tastes great alone but I knew I just had to create a spread to compliment it.   I used raw coconut butter as the base so it is soft, above room temperature of 76 degrees (F),  but once chilled, it firms up nice and solid.  I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 100 crackers




1 cup raw hazelnuts, soaked

1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

6 cups packed, moist almond pulp

1 cup ground flax-seed

2 Tbsp orange zest

1 1/4 cups orange juice (4 oranges)

1/4 cup maple syrup

2 tsp ground cardamom

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Butter Orange Spread:


1/2 cup coconut butter, softened

1/2 cup fresh orange juice


Preparation:

Cracker:


In the food processor, fitted with the”S” blade, break down sunflower seeds and the hazelnuts.

In a large bowl combine the almond pulp, ground flax, ground hazelnuts and sunflower seeds, orange zest, orange juice, maple syrup, cardamom, cinnamon, and salt.  Mix well with hands to ensure everything gets mixed well.

Tip: zest the oranges before juicing them.

Taste the batter. If you want it to be a bit brighter in the orange flavor add 4 drops of Orange Essential oil (not flavoring if possible) and 1/4 cup more sweetener.




Spread the batter onto the non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator about 1/4″ thick.

Square up the edges nice and straight, then score the crackers into the desired shape and size.

I used a long metal ruler to score the crackers.  You can use a pizza cutter or knife, just be careful that you don’t cut the non-stick sheet.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for 6-8 hours, flip them onto the mesh sheet and peel the non-stick sheet off.  Continue drying for another 6-8 hours or until dry.

Once cool, snap the crackers and apart and store in an airtight container for 2 weeks.


Spread:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the softened coconut butter and orange juice.  Process until silky and creamy.

Store in the fridge for up to 2 weeks or for several months in the freezer.  Remember, it will become solid when chilled.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



