Salsa Flax Thins (raw, vegan, nut-free, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/crackers/salsa-flax-thins/



	Salsa Flax Thins

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, nut-free, gluten-free ~

It just really can’t get any thinner than this! To state the obvious, Salsa Flax thins are THIN, crunchy, but what you might not see is that they are full of flavor.

This is a simple recipe that I threw together using the by-product of making flax gel and two other ingredients.   So where does all the flavor come from? The salsa. And you have complete control over what goes into that.

I haven’t met a person who doesn’t have a salsa recipe in their arsenal.  And if you just don’t have the time or energy to make you own, you can find many wonderful ones in the grocery store.  Make sure to read the ingredients so you don’t get a bunch of processed items and/or sugar.  Look for raw, freshly made ones in the produce or deli section of the grocery store.

If you are looking for a really hardy cracker, check out the other flax cracker recipes on my site… remember, I created this recipe by using the by-product of another recipe.  I never like to see anything go to waste and my goal was to create something quick and simple.

There are tons of ingredient options when it comes to this recipe… and if something strikes your fancy, give it a try, my guess is that you can’t go wrong.

Well, it’s time to get crack-a-lacking in the kitchen so I will let you go.  Have fun, be creative, and let your imagination take your taste buds on a magical ride. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 40 (1 Tbsp) crackers


1 1/2 cups of soaked flax seeds – left over from making flax gel

2 cups fresh salsa

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


In a medium bowl, combine the flax seeds, salsa, and salt.  Mix well.

If your salsa is salty, omit or cut down the on the amount listed above. Taste test!




Line a dehydrator tray with a nonstick sheet and drop 1 Tbsp worth of cracker batter on the sheet.

No need to spread it, just let gravity do its job.

Drop them far enough apart so they don’t touch edges.




Sprinkle a little salt on top of each cracker.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for 6+ hours or until crunchy.

Store in an air-tight container on the counter for 1-2 weeks, maybe longer. :)


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



