Cinnamon Maple Pumpkin Seeds (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/cinnamon-maple-pumpkin-seeds/



	Cinnamon Maple Pumpkin Seeds

													    
    


				 ~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~



This recipe was inspired by a group of men. One day, I went down to the “shop” where my husband was working on restoring an old electric vehicle.  He had a group of guys who were helping with the project.  They had all been friends for 20+ years.



Outside of my husband, none of them ate healthily or cared to hear about it. They were greasy-burger-fry-flipping kind of men. As I was tinkering around the shop watching the boys working and half-listening to their conversation, I heard one guy pipe up about the health benefits of pumpkin seeds.



He was telling other guys that he had read that pumpkin seeds were good for the prostate. They all piped up and started asking questions. I was stunned, I was shocked?! Were they contemplating eating something for their health?  It was such a beautiful sight to watch them ole’ times get excited over something that might benefit their body.



For about a week, when I would go down to the shop to either visit or help the guys, I would find them eating fistfuls of pumpkin seeds. I was impressed and got the inspiration to run home and create not only a healthy snack of pumpkin seeds for them but a delicious one at that!  I quickly spun on my heels and headed home. I couldn’t wait to make their next day’s treat.



Mission accomplished, the next day I brought the boys some Maple Cinnamon Pumpkin Seeds.  At first, they looked at me cross-eyed and with great hesitation.  They knew that I made healthy food and tended to shy away from me when I came bouncing in with a dish in hand… but as soon I declared that it was just seasoned PUMPKIN seeds, they dove right in.  Hehe, It’s the small things in life, like this, that really blesses my heart.  Enjoy and many blessings, amie sue
Ingredients:


5 cups raw pumpkin seeds, soaked 4+ hours

2 Tbsp chia seeds

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp raw mesquite powder

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup yacon syrup or maple syrup

1 tsp vanilla extract



Preparation:


After soaking the seeds, discard and drain the water, giving them a quick rinse with water.

In a medium-sized bowl, combine the chia seeds, cinnamon, mesquite powder, and salt.

Add the seeds, sweetener, and vanilla.  Stir until the seeds are well coated.

Spread the mixture on non-stick dehydrator sheets.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours or until dry.

Then spread your seed mixture on the dehydrator trays, the quicker they will dehydrate.




Allow them to cool before you store them in a sealed bag or container at room temperature, fridge, or freezer, for months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



