Glazed Cinnamon Pecans (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/glazed-cinnamon-pecans/



	Glazed Cinnamon Pecans

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Whoever said you can’t guarantee happiness clearly has never tried this recipe.

Glazed Cinnamon Pecans taste just like gourmet candied nuts. They are gently tossed in a lightly salted sweet glaze that is crunchy and addicting!

Whenever we have a salad in a restaurant Bob always enjoys having glazed pecans tossed in. Nothing can take a salad to the next level like perfectly glazed nuts. Their contrast between sweetness, saltiness, and crunch is heavenly.

It never dawned on me that they were glazed and that is why he liked them so much.  Well, shoot, I can glaze them too! Not to mention keeping them raw and healthier.  Move over “restaurant glazed nuts”…there is a new nut in town and his name is Bob. hehe

When pecans are fresh, they have a crisp, buttery texture and a mildly sweet and nutty taste. So be sure to taste test the pecans that you use for this recipe.

When you find a good source of pecans, stock up. They will need to be stored in a cool, dry place completely void of moisture. If you want to prolong the life of the pecans, placing them in the freezer will suffice. The quality of the pecans will not be affected even if you thaw and refreeze them several times.

If you store the pecans outside the refrigerator or freezer, keep them in a cool, dark place such as the pantry. Sealed bags can be used, but this kind of storing is not recommended for long-term storage.

On the nutrition level, they can’t mend a broken heart, but they can help protect it. They are known to help battle heart disease by lowering blood cholesterol levels. (according to research performed at New Mexico State University). They are also a good source of zinc which helps guard against infections, vitamin E protects against cancer, and vitamin A helps keep your complexion clear.

Ingredients:


2 cups raw pecans, soaked 

2 Tbsp yacon syrup or maple syrup

1 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp ground Ceylon  cinnamon

Dash ground nutmeg

Dash Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:



Soak pecans overnight. Drain and rinse.

Spread the pecans on a dry towel and blot them dry before placing them in a bowl.

Combine the remaining ingredients along with the pecans and stir until the pecans are well coated.

Spread on the non-stick dehydrator sheets and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for  4-10 hours or until dry.

If you don’t have non-stick sheets you can use parchment paper.  Don’t use wax paper.

The dry time will vary depending on the humidity, climate, how big or small the pecans are, and how full the machine is.




Store in an air-tight container in a cool, dry place.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



