Chipotle Spiced Sunflower Seeds (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/chipotle-spiced-sunflower-seeds/



	Chipotle Spiced Sunflower Seeds

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Today’s recipe, Chipotle Spiced Sunflower Seeds,  was inspired by our dear friend David who shared with me a few weeks ago that he LOVED sunflower seeds that were flavored with any spice.

Well, say no more!  I knew exactly what he was getting for Christmas.  To me there is nothing more special than homemade gifts,  let’s hope he feels the same way.

This evening I pulled these out of the dehydrator, and I had to fight to keep my husband and mom out of them.  Ok, Ok, I shared some with them but had I left them alone with the bowl,  well let’s just say David would be getting a gift card. haha

Update 5/25/16… Well, here I am again. I just pulled these out of the dehydrator so I could load my husband’s snack cabinet.  Yep, he has his own cabinet of snacks, and it brings me such joy to keep it full of healthy goodies.  Keeps him out of trouble. :)  I decided it was time to give the photos a remake but I left the recipe ingredients as is… why change what is already so darn yummy?!

Ingredients:




3 cups raw shelled sunflower seeds, soaked

3 Tbsp chili powder

1 tsp cumin

1 tsp coconut crystals

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp onion powder

1/2 tsp Chipotle

2 Tbsp olive oil

1 Tbsp apple cider vinegar

1 clove garlic, minced

1 Tbsp coconut aminos


Preparation:


After soaking the seeds, discard and drain them, giving them a quick rinse with water.

In a medium-sized bowl, combine the chili powder, cumin, coconut crystals, salt, onion powder and chipotle powder.

Add the seeds, oil, vinegar, garlic, and Tamari.  Stir until the seeds are well coated.

Spread the mixture on non-stick dehydrator sheets.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours or until dry.

The thinner you spread your seed mixture on the dehydrator trays, the quicker they will dehydrate.




Allow them to cool before you store them in a sealed bag or container at room temperature, fridge, or freezer, for months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



