Taco Seasoned Croutons (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/taco-croutons/



	Taco Croutons

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Sometimes I like to add a Mexican flair to my salads, and these Taco Seasoned Croutons worked perfectly. Not only do they bring in a flavor that makes me want to do the Rumba but it also adds a wonderful crunchy texture that is very satisfying.

First of all, you should know that these croutons are so easy to make. They go together in minutes and just require some time in the dehydrator. And I suppose during that drying time; you too can brush up on your Rumba dancing skills. :)

For the base, I used the almond pulp.  I mention this in every crouton post because I never know what recipe you will land on and I want to make sure that you understand why I select the ingredients used.

Nut pulp offers up a light and airy texture. Almond pulp (nut pulp) is the leftover remains from making nut milk.  Click here if you are unfamiliar with making nut milk. If you use flours or ground nuts, they will turn out dense and heavy.  They will still taste good, just a different texture.

I created my own taco seasoning (link provided below) because I don’t feel it is necessary to add sugars and fillers, like store bought seasoning does, to something that is so simple to make.

If you are looking for a raw food kitchen staple… croutons are an excellent addition.  I like to seal them in freezer ziplock bags and toss in the freezer.  They keep fresh and crisp. I just reach in and grab a handful to sprinkle on my salad or I  eat them as a savory mid-day snack.  Ok, I did my job. I made them and shared the recipe… Now, get busy and make some scrumptious croutons for yourself!

Ingredients:

Yields 64 croutons (I counted :)


1 cup packed, moist almond pulp

1/2 Tbsp taco seasoning


Preparation:


In a large bowl combine the pulp and taco seasoning.   I used my hands to make sure it was well incorporated.

If the batter feels too dry, add 1 Tbsp of water at a time until it sticks together nicely when pinched.




Place batter on the non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Cover with plastic wrap or a non-stick sheet and roll it out to roughly 1/4 to 1/2″ thick.

Remove the top sheet after rolling it out and using a pizza cutter or off-set spatula, create small squares.

Sprinkle coarse salt and extra seasoning over the top.




Dehydrate at 145 (F) degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) degrees for 6-10 hours, until dry.

As you can see in the photo, the top of the crouton darkens as it dries giving it that nice “cooked” appearance.

Store in a sealed, glass container.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



