Herbes de Provence Croutons (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/herbes-de-provence-croutons/



	Herbes de Provence Croutons

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Croutons are small, crisp pieces of bread that are sautéed or baked to remove moisture. Raw croutons are small, crisp pieces that have been dehydrated to remove the moisture. Not so different from the cooked version except perhaps healthier for the body. :)

For me, when I started eating raw foods, the one thing that I really missed and found myself continually searching for was texture.  I made my first raw crouton recipe several years ago and it was a godsend!

Not only are croutons great on salads or in soups, but they make wonderful snacks all by their lonesome.  The key ingredient that I use in my crouton recipes is nut pulp.  Not nut flour or ground nuts, but the pulp that is leftover from making nut milks.

Nut pulp offers up a light and airy texture.  If you use flours or ground nuts they will turn out dense and heavy.  They will still taste good, just a different texture.  Now, get busy and make yourself some scrumptious croutons!

Ingredients:

Yields 8 cups


6 cups moist almond pulp

1 cup nutritional yeast

2 Tbsp coconut aminos

2 Tbsp Herbs de Provence

2 Tbsp onion powder


Preparation:


Almond pulp (nut pulp) is the leftover remains from making nut milk.  Click here if you are unfamiliar with making nut milks.

In a large bowl combine the pulp, nutritional yeast, aminos, herbs de Provence, and onion powder.   I used my hands to make sure it was well incorporated.

Place batter on the non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Cover with plastic wrap and roll it out to roughly 1/4″ thick.

Remove the top teflex sheet after rolling it out and using a pizza cutter or off-set spatula, create small squares.

Sprinkle coarse salt and extra Herbes de Provence over the top.




Dehydrate at 145 (F) degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) degrees for 6-10 hours, until dry.

Store in a sealed, glass container.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



