Chipotle Spiced Pumpkin Seeds (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/chipotle-spiced-pumpkin-seeds/



	Chipotle Spiced Pumpkin Seeds

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I absolutely love the flavor combo of chili powder, cumin, and chipotle.  So, I knew that I need to vessel to carry out this craving of mine, and pumpkin seeds were the target.

Protein-Packed Snack

Pumpkin seeds carry a good quality of protein. In roughly 100 grams of these wondrous seeds, they will provide 54% of the recommended daily allowance of protein.  I have found it so interesting throughout the years that when others find out that a person doesn’t eat animal protein, the whereabouts of protein is always the big concern.

But I get it. It is very logical for the typical SAD (standard American diet) eater to be confused about nutrients when others start eliminating food groups.  In truth, we always need to seek balance regardless of how we eat.  And hopefully, in the long run, we are all choosing to consume foods that are healing for our own bodies… not what the latest trend is. That can be tough though.

It’s not easy to hold back and not jump on the current bandwagon of what is popular today.  We just need to stop, take a step back, and turn inward… honoring our bodies with nutrient-dense foods that will be each of us optimal health. Agreed?

Ingredients:

yields 3 cups


3 cups raw shelled pumpkin seeds, soaked

3 Tbsp chili powder

1 tsp cumin

1 tsp coconut crystals

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp onion powder

1/2 tsp Chipotle powder

2 Tbsp cold-pressed olive oil

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

1 clove garlic, minced

1 Tbsp coconut aminos


Preparation:


After soaking the pumpkin seeds, discard and drain them, giving them a quick rinse with water.

In a medium-sized bowl, combine the chili powder, cumin, coconut crystals, salt, onion powder, and chipotle powder.

Add the pumpkin seeds, oil, vinegar, garlic, and coconut aminos.  Stir until the seeds are well coated.

Spread the mixture on non-stick dehydrator sheets.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours or until dry.

The thinner you spread your seed mixture on the dehydrator trays, the quicker they will dehydrate.




Allow them to cool before you store them in a sealed bag or container at room temperature, fridge, or freezer, for months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



