Italian Seasoned Croutons - using almond meal
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/italian-seasoned-croutons-using-almond-meal/



	Italian Seasoned Croutons – using almond meal

													    
    


				
Italian Seasoned Croutons – using almond meal


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I already made a wonderful recipe using the almond pulp, which is the leftover remains from making almond milk.  Because I don’t always have extra pulp on hand, I thought I would play around and see how they would turn out using almond meal.

Almond meal is ground almonds, not leftover over pulp.  There is a difference.  You can purchase almond meal these days, or you can simply make it which I recommend because you will have been controlling over the quality of your product.

In the end, I preferred using the almond pulp for the lighter texture.  I just wanted you to have an option.

Ingredients:


3 cups almond meal/flour

1/2 cup water

1/2 cup nutritional yeast

1 Tbsp coconut aminos

1 Tbsp Italian seasoning

1 Tbsp onion powder


Preparation:


In a large mixing bowl, combine the almond meal, water, nutritional yeast, Braggs, Italian seasoning, and onion powder,  mix well.  I used my hands to make sure it was well incorporated.

Place batter on the teflex sheet that comes with your dehydrator press it out with your hands.

Place a second teflex sheet over the top of the batter, and using a rolling pin,  roll out nice and evenly.

The thickness is whatever you desire.

Remove the top non-stick sheet after rolling it out and using a pizza cutter or off-set spatula, create small squares.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and dehydrate until dry.

Halfway through the dry time, flip the croutons over onto the mesh sheet and peel off the non-stick sheet. Continue drying. By doing this, it will speed up the dry time since the air can evenly flow around the croutons.




Store in a sealed, glass container. I have found over the years that I like to store them in the freezer in an airtight container. They stay fresh, crisp, and I take out what I need.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



