Pumpernickel Croutons
https://nouveauraw.com/croutons-salad-toppings/pumpernickel-croutons/



	Pumpernickel Croutons

													    
    


				

Croutons are a by-product of making bread, which is exactly where this recipe came from. When I create raw bread recipes, I like to set aside a small portion of the dough to create croutons. This is one of those times where you “cook” once, but get two different results from your efforts.

Standard pumpernickel bread is made using a specific kind of flour that is made from coarsely-ground whole rye berries. The loaves tend to be dense, dark, and strongly flavored.

In order to create a raw, gluten-free version, I used oats, almond pulp, and some wonderfully intense flavorings; caraway and instant espresso powder. Once blended together it took on the presence of rye.

If you enjoy a high-raw diet, chances are that you might be missing out on the “crunch factor” that comes from cooked, processed foods. These raw, vegan, gluten-free, nutritious croutons are here to save the day.

Not only do they add crunch to a salad, but they also bring in a wonderful complexity of flavor to any dish that you might feel enamored to sprinkle them on. Truth be told, I usually end up snacking on them as is.

Time-Saving Tip

Go ahead and tie those apron strings tightly around your waist, put on some good toe-tapping music, hydrate with a tall glass of green juice, and make a double batch of these croutons.

Once made, keep some in an airtight glass container for snacking and then freeze the rest. They taste great right out of the freezer. This way you can dress up any salad or satisfy that need for something savory and crunchy… on a whim!

Ingredients:

Yields: 300 croutons




1 cup rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1/3 cup flax seeds, ground

3 Tbsp psyllium husks

3 Tbsp caraway seeds, fresh ground

1 Tbsp instant espresso powder

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/4 cup raw coconut crystals

1 tsp garlic powder

1 1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cups packed, moist almond pulp

1 cup shredded zucchini

1/2 cup carrot juice

6 Tbsp maple syrup


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the oats and almonds, processing until they are a small mealy texture.

Add flax, psyllium, caraway, espresso powder, cacao, coconut crystals, garlic, and salt. Pulse together and set aside.

In a large mixing bowl, combine the almond pulp, zucchini, carrot juice, and sweetener. Mix well with hands to blend everything together.

To make the sugar, replace the 6 Tbsp of liquid sweetener with 1/4 tsp Liquid NuNatural stevia and 1/2 cup more of carrot juice.




Add the dry ingredients to the mixing bowl and mix well.

Place the dough on a non-stick sheet or plastic wrap, cover with another, and roll out to a 1/4″ thickness.

Square up the edges and score into bite-sized croutons.




Transfer to the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Sprinkle the top with black and white sesame seeds.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8+/- hours or until dry.

Allow to cool before storing.

They can last up to a week on the counter or 1-3 months in the freezer.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter? Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free? Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw? Yes, click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended. Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flax-seeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition. Click (here).

How does psyllium work in a recipe? Learn more (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)? Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



