Buttery Cinnamon Buckwheat Crust (raw, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/crusts/buttery-cinnamon-buckwheat-crust/



	Buttery Cinnamon Buckwheat Crust

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This is a wonderful, neutral flavored raw, gluten-free, crust that will ultimately pair well with any filling.  It isn’t flakey like Grandma’s old fashion pie crusts… but it is the closest that I have found in the raw food world.   I couldn’t be more thrilled with the outcome.

It has both a cinnamon and a buttery undertone flavor.  For the cinnamon, I highly recommend using Ceylon cinnamon.  It is known for being the true cinnamon which is lighter, sweeter and more delicate in flavor.

If you were to go to your spice cabinet right now and pull out the cinnamon jar, I am betting that it is Cassia cinnamon. If the jar doesn’t indicate which one it is… chances are it is the Cassia because it is less expensive than Ceylon.  Cassia is spicier, more pungent, more intense and often hotter flavor than Ceylon. It is therefore preferred in meat dishes, curries, and other savory foods.  Who knew that there was that much of a difference.

About five years ago, for a while, I got into eating an apple every morning.  I would slice it paper-thin on my mandolin, creating a heaping pile of apple slices.  I then would sprinkle Himalayan salt and cinnamon on it.  That was my addiction.  I was going through bottles of cinnamon fairly quick, well quicker than I normally would.  At the time I would buy the first organic bottle I would spot on the grocery store shelf.

Because I was enjoying the cinnamon in a simplistic way and it wasn’t getting muddled with other ingredients, I started to notice a huge difference in flavor.  At first, I thought I was just getting burnout on cinnamon but then I started to do some research and that is when I learned about the different types of cinnamon.  Since then, I make sure to only purchase the Ceylon type.   You can read more about it (here).

Let’s get back to the main topic here… the crust!  The base ingredient is buckwheat but to bring in a “buttery” flavor note, I added a cup of macadamia nuts.  I try not to use them too often because they are expensive but I will pull them out for special occasions and this crust was just that… a special occasion.  I used soaked & dehydrated mac nuts, but you could use them wet if you didn’t want to dehydrate them first.  I preferred the drier texture that it gave the crust.

Below, I provided some step-by-step photos, showing you how I made this crust… all except the decorative edging.  I needed a third hand in order to do the pinching action and take the picture.  You can Google “crust edging” and find many different ways in making them.  This crust is very easy to make, but it is different from the typical raw crusts and just require you to press clumps of dough together.  This recipe is more authentic.  It will make either four single pie crusts or two pie crusts that include top and bottom.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields 2 (top/bottom) crusts



2 cups (390 g) buckwheat groats; soaked

1 cup (148 g) macadamia nuts or cashews

1/4 cup (57 g) flaxseed, ground

2 Tbsp (43 g) maple syrup

2 Tbsp (20 g) cold-pressed coconut oil

1 Tbsp (7 g) ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp (2 g)  Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:



Click on the link above to learn how to soak buckwheat. After soaking the buckwheat, drain and discard the soak water, rinsing them under running water until you don’t detect anymore mucilage (slime) draining from it.  This important as it will affect the taste.

You can take the buckwheat to the next nutritional level by sprouting it before continuing with the recipe.  This will take an extra day or two.




Place the flax seeds in a small grinder to bring to a powder.

In a food processor, fitted with an “S” blade, combine the groats, macadamia nuts, flax, maple syrup, coconut oil, cinnamon, and salt. Process until the batter is well mixed.

Form a dough ball and put it in between two large sheets of plastic wrap.  If it feels too sticky to handle, let it rest for at least 15 minutes.

Roll the dough thinly, less than a 1/4″ thick.

Drape the crust over a 9-in pie dish, gently press into place and then remove the top sheet of plastic.

Create a decorative edge, trimming any excess dough.

Option: to create a cooked appearance, you can mix either cinnamon or powdered coconut crystals in a small bowl with water… then paint it onto the crust with a brush.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce to 115 (F) and dry for another 2-4 hours.

Carefully lift the crust out and remove the plastic wrap.  Place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and continue to dry for another hour, or until the crust is crispy on both sides.

The crust will shrink back just a little bit once dried.

Fill with your favorite filling and enjoy!






























All done dehydrating.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



