Vanilla Bean Sugar Cookie Crust
https://nouveauraw.com/crusts/vanilla-bean-sugar-cookie-crust/



	Vanilla Bean Sugar Cookie Crust

													    
    


				

Vanilla Bean Sugar Cookie Crust


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Sugar cookies are known to be a festive and delicious holiday cookie, not to mention Santa’s favorite midnight snack!  But I don’t think that we should “box” sugar cookies into just holiday cookies or the cookie as far as that goes. :)  This sugar cookie crust is a must-try!

There are many wonderful recipes that you can create using raw pie crusts.  Everything in between sweet and savory.  With this recipe or any of the others, you can either make it for an instant dessert creation, or you can store blank crusts in the freezer for future inspiration.

Just remove them from the freezer and load up with your favorite fillings.  For a few ideas, you could use cheesecake fillings, raw chocolate pudding, blended Young Thai coconut meat, fresh fruit, or even savory ingredients.

Which pan should I use?

There isn’t an answer to this because the possibilities are quite endless.  Pie pans, Springform pans, baking pans, tart pans… be creative and start to look outside of the “pan” for ideas.

How do I prepare the pan?

If using a pie pan and plan on serving it straight from there, I would lightly dust the pan with finely ground nuts or oat flour.  If you use Springform pans or tart pans, wrap the base with plastic wrap.



With this recipe, I can make a base and part up the side crust for a 9″ pan.  The larger the pan, the thinner the crust.  Don’t go too thin or it won’t hold up. If you want to go up the sides of the container, you will need to double the recipe. Or I can make 5-6 (4″) tart pan crusts.   It can be enjoyed instantly or frozen for future use. Fill it with raw coconut yogurt, puddings, or fresh fruits.

Ingredients:

Yields 9″ Springform pan (base & part up the sides)


2 cups fine almond flour

2 cups cashew flour

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup raw cashew butter

1/3 cup raw sweetener of choice

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1 tsp raw coconut vinegar

2 vanilla bean (seeds only)

1 Tbsp water



Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the almond flour, cashew flour, and salt. Pulse together.

This will ensure even displacement of the spices/seasonings.

I used very fine almond flour, so there wouldn’t be chunks of nuts in it.




Add the cashew butter, sweetener, lemon juice, vinegar, vanilla bean seeds, and water. Process everything together until the batter sticks together when pinched.

Press the crust mixture evenly in the bottom of the dessert pan and partway up the sides.

Do your best to make sure the crust is the same thickness throughout, even if you decide to go up the side.

Crusts also are fantastic for creating a “crumble” to top desserts as well.

For more crust techniques, click (Perfecting the Springform Pan and Crusts)




The crust can be made 3-4 days in advance for time-saving purposes.


Freezer option:


To create a raw food staple, I made five small tart pan crusts and froze them for future use.

Line the base of the tart pan with plastic wrap.

Place 1/2 cup of crust batter in the pan and press the crust batter into the bottom and sides of the pan.

To store for future dessert inspiration:

Place in the freezer for at least 2+ hours to firm up.

Once frozen, remove from the pan and lightly wrap the crusts individually with plastic wrap and place it in an airtight container in a single layer.

Freeze for up to 3 months.

Remove from the freezer and fill with cheesecake batter, raw cacao pudding, blended Young Thai Coconut meat… the possibilities are endless.









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



