Cultured Fudgesicles
https://nouveauraw.com/cultured-fermented/cultured-fudgesicles/



	Cultured Fudgesicles

													    
    


				

I believe that fudgesicles can be a healthy part of our diet, but in order for that to be true, we must concentrate on the ingredients that we choose. This recipe is raw, vegan, and cultured.

Supercharged with probiotics!

For the base, I used my Cultured Almond Milk, which is supercharged with probiotics. The word “probiotic” is a compound of two Greek words: “pro,” to signify promotion of; and “biotic,” which means life. Their very definition is something that affirms life and health.

“Commonly claimed benefits of probiotics include the decrease of potentially pathogenic gastrointestinal microorganisms, the reduction of gastrointestinal discomfort, the strengthening of the immune system, the improvement of the skin’s function, and the improvement of bowel regularity. “(1)

Loaded with vitamins!

So far, I am thrilled with the start of this recipe. Next up is the avocado.  Avocados are a good source of pantothenic acid, dietary fiber, vitamin K, copper, folate, vitamin B6, potassium, vitamin E, and vitamin C. As well as omega 3’s. (2)

Bananas have a healthy role in this recipe too. They have fiber, potassium, vitamin C, and B6 which help to support heart health.  But I also added them for the texture and the natural sweetness.  Just make sure that they are nice and ripe.  The riper they are, the sweeter they are.

Raw cacao was added, of course, for the deep fudgy flavor, and who doesn’t like that? Health-wise, there are many components of cacao, including alkaloids, proteins, beta-carotene, leucine, linoleic, lipase, lysine, and theobromine, which all work together to improve physical and mental health.

Lastly, a pinch of sea salt.  Though the grains are tiny and just a pinch is added, it is for a good reason.  Sea salt contains 60 trace minerals which can help you stay hydrated, but I also added the salt to heighten the sweetness of the overall recipe. Granted, I only scratched the surface of the health benefits of each of the ingredients that I chose, but I hope it is enough to intrigue you. Enjoy! Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1 1/2 cups cultured almond milk

1/2 avocado (74 g)

2 frozen bananas (264 g)

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

Pinch sea salt

Stevia to taste


Preparation:


In the blender combine the milk, avocado, bananas, cacao, salt, and stevia.  Blend until creamy.

It is helpful to break the banana into small chunks when blending.  Using them frozen will give you a better texture.

I use liquid NuNatural stevia, as I find that it doesn’t have an aftertaste.  Use whatever sweetener that you want.  Keep in mind the sweetness will mellow when foods are frozen, so add a little bit more than you might think is necessary.




Pour the batter into popsicle molds and place in the freezer overnight.

They should keep for 1 month in the freezer, maybe longer.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



