Hemp Milk Variations (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dairy-substitutes/hemp-milk-variations-raw-vegan-gluten-free-nut-free/



	Hemp Milk Variations

													    
    


				



~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, Paleo ~

Non-dairy milk was once just a vegan-only trend for those in search of solutions for their lactose-indifferent ways, but this just isn’t the case anymore. You don’t have to have any special dietary restrictions to enjoy these hip, delicious, and nutritious drinks.

So just to reiterate… this recipe is dairy-free, vegan, gluten-free, grain-free, nut-free, peanut-free, soy-free, plant-based, vegetarian, sugar-free, paleo, raw, and top food allergy-friendly (takes a deep breath). I think that covers most of the bases.

As I mentioned already, hemp seed milk is highly nutritious. Did you know that hemp seeds are a complete protein, with all 10 amino acids?

They also contain calcium, magnesium, iron, potassium, fiber, B vitamins, and omega-3 fatty acids. They support heart health, healthy skin and hair, plus boosts the immunity system. All that in a tall glass of hemp milk. It’s true… milk does a body good! So let’s talk about ingredients and flavor options. First off…


Hulled versus Unhulled Hemp Seeds

Hulled hemp seeds have the outer crunchy shell removed, and is also referred to as; hemp hearts shelled hemp seed, and hemp nut. Raw hulled hemp seeds have a delicate ivory color with green flecks and have a nutty, yet mild grassy flavor. If you use whole (unshelled) hemp seeds, you will need to strain the hemp milk through a nut milk back to remove the outer hard husk.



Why I add sunflower lecithin:

Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support healthy function of the brain, nervous system, and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints and helps break up cholesterol in the body. It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.  I prefer the raw, powdered sunflower lecithin.  Setting aside all the nutritional benefits, it is a natural emulsifier that binds natural fats with water creating a creamy consistency.



Additional Flavor Options:

Raw Cacao Powder


Raw cacao powder contains more than 300 different chemical compounds and nearly four times the antioxidant power of your average dark chocolate – more than 20 times than that of blueberries.

Studies have shown that chocolate affects your emotions and mood by raising serotonin levels, which explains why chocolate is often craved when gloominess looms. Also to the rescue is a neurotransmitter called theobromine, a mild stimulant sometimes used as a treatment for depression.  (source)

Adding the pinch of salt and vanilla will help reduce bitterness and elevate the sweetness of any added sweetener.

Note: Cacao does have caffeine, so be careful if you are sensitive to it.


Matcha Hemp milk:


It is great for promoting mental clarity and alertness. Again be careful if you’re sensitive to caffeine.

Matcha powdered green tea has 137 times more antioxidants than regularly brewed green tea.

Detoxifies effectively and naturally

Calms the mind and relaxes the body

Is rich in fiber, chlorophyll, and vitamins

Enhances mood and aids in concentration

Provides vitamin C, selenium, chromium, zinc and magnesium

Prevents disease

Lowers cholesterol and blood sugar

(source)


Turmeric Hemp Milk:


It has natural anti-inflammatory properties.

Its beautiful golden color will brighten your day.

It has a slightly astringent and bitter flavor profile, but this will tame down with the addition of a sweetener.

The oil and black pepper are needed so the body can naturally absorb all of the health benefits of Turmeric.


Ok, I think this is a good start for how and why to make Hemp Milk. There are oodles and oodles of variations to be made, so use what I share below as a platform to dive off of.  Enjoy and have a blessed day, amie sue





Ingredients:

Unflavored & Unsweetened base:


1 cup raw shelled hemp seeds

3 cups water

1 Tbsp powdered sunflower lecithin

1 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil, optional

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


Add these to the Unflavored & Unsweetened base listed above.

Sweetened, add to base milk:


3-6 pitted dates or 2 – 3 Tbsp pure maple syrup, or sweetener of choice

1 tsp vanilla extract or 1/2 Tbsp of organic vanilla powder


Sugar-free, Sweetened Hemp Milk:


1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4-1 tsp liquid NuNaturals stevia, to taste


Chocolate milk:


2-3 Tbsp raw cacao or carob powder

1 tsp vanilla extract or 1/2 Tbsp of organic vanilla powder

1/2 tsp Ceylon cinnamon


Matcha Hemp milk:


1 Tbsp matcha tea

1 Tbsp coconut butter


Turmeric Hemp Milk:


1-inch piece fresh turmeric root

3-6 pitted dates or 2 – 3 Tbsp pure maple syrup, or sweetener of choice

1 Tbsp coconut oil

Dash fresh ground black pepper


Preparation:

Unflavored & Unsweetened base:






In the blender combine the hemp seeds, water, lecithin, coconut oil, and salt, blend on high for up to 60 seconds, until the seeds are completely pulverized.

To maximize nutrition, use hulled hemp seeds, and don’t strain the milk.

But if you are looking for a smoother, silky mouth-feel, you will want to strain the mixture.





Straining the milk:

Turn the nut milk bag inside out and keep seams on the outside for easier straining, cleaning, and faster drying.

Place the nut milk bag in the center of a large bowl.

Instead of a nut bag, you can drape cheesecloth over the edges of the bowl and pour the milk through it.  I find this process messier, and it doesn’t seem to filter it as well.

Desperate?  Don’t have a nut bag or cheesecloth while you are vacationing in France?  Take off one of those silky-French knee-high nylons, wash it, and pour the milk through it.  I am here, always thinking for you. :)




With one hand holding the nut bag, pour the milk into the bag.  Lift the bag, and the milk will start to flow through the mesh holes in the bag.  The finer the mesh, the more filtered the milk will be.

Gather the nut bag (or cheesecloth) around the hemp pulp and twist close.

Squeeze the pulp with your hand to extract as much milk as possible.


Adding flavorings:


Rinse the blender container, and pour the strained milk back in. Add flavorings of choice and blend until smooth and creamy.


Storing and expiration:

Store the milk in an airtight glass container such as a mason jar.

Always label the contents and the date that it was made.

If for some reason separation still does occur, just shake the jar before serving, and the milk will come back together.




Fridge – This milk can last anywhere from 3-5 days in the fridge.

If the hemp milk prematurely sours it may be from an unclean blender, nut milk bag or poor quality seeds.




Freezer – There are several ways to store hemp milk in the freezer.  Freeze for up to 3 months.

Pour the milk into ice cubes trays and freeze.  This is great for plopping into smoothies.

Freeze in 1 1/2 pint freezer-safe jars.

It is important that you only freeze glass jars that are made for freezing.  I have tested this, and sure enough, I have had jars crack on me, resulting in throwing everything in the trash.  Sad day.

You can use smaller jars for better portion control if you don’t plan on using a full 1 1/2 pints worth.

Pay attention to the “maximum freeze line” indicated on the jar.  If you don’t see that, then it’s another indicator that the jar isn’t safe to place in the freezer.





Nut bag maintenance:

It is important to keep the nut milk bag clean!

Wash with organic, scent-free soap, such Dr. Bronners.  Do not use laundry soap. (always refer to the manufacturer’s cleaning method as well)

Rinse well and air dry. Ideally in the direct sun to receive free sterilizing from the warm rays.  Nylon nut milk bags should not be placed in the sun as the ultraviolet rays can damage the nylon.

Do not hang the bags outside on the clothesline to dry.  We don’t want an air-raid of bird poop coming down on it.

Proper bag storage –

I like to roll mine up and store in a glass jar. This will help keep it clean, protect it from dust, and accidental hole damage. A holy bag has no purpose when it comes to milk making.

Also, if you use nut bags for multiple reasons, it would be a good idea to store them in separate jars, labeling them for their purpose, such as; nut milks, juicing, sprouting.









		
		
			
				
			
				
				Combine ingredients…
				
			
				
			
				
				Blend until creamy…
				

			
				
			
				
				Strain and Enjoy!
				
			
				
			
				
				Hemp Seed Milk pulp
				

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



