Raw Coconut Milk (using shredded coconut)
https://nouveauraw.com/dairy-substitutes/raw-coconut-milk/



	Coconut Milk (using shredded coconut)

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Nothing beats fresh, homemade coconut milk.  There are many ways to make it, so please be sure to check out my other postings just in case you don’t have any shredded coconut on hand.  Homemade is far more abundant in vitamins, food enzymes, and nutrients than coconut milk from a can or box.


As odd as this may sound, coconut milk actively tastes just like coconut. (hehe)  Whenever I use coconut as an ingredient, I always get people asking if it is strong in coconut flavor… in this case, it sure does. :)

As a test, I divided the milk into two separate mason jars.  I added 2 tsp of powdered sunflower lecithin to one jar of coconut milk and placed them in the fridge overnight. In the morning, I did a taste test and found that I preferred the creamier texture of the milk that had the lecithin in it.   Adding this is optional but something worth testing to see which way you prefer it.


Why do I add sunflower lecithin?

Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support the healthy function of the brain, nervous system, and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints; helps break up cholesterol in the body.

It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.  For the milk, I prefer using the powdered sunflower lecithin. Setting aside all the nutritional benefits, it is a natural emulsifier that binds the fats from nuts with water creating a creamy consistency.


All of the steps below will lead to creamier, full-bodied coconut milk.   Feel free to enhance the flavor by adding different extracts and/or sweeteners.   I like to add a dropper of NuNaturals Stevia, but any sweetener can be used.

This milk is best enjoyed chilled, but there are many other creative ways of enjoying it as well.  As I just mentioned, you can dress up the flavor with sweeteners and extracts.   You can use it in cheesecakes, cereals… basically as you would use any other milk.  Feel free to add more or less water to the recipe, as well. I like creamier milks so in the future; I might use 2-3 cups of water… tailor it to your itty-bitty taste buds. :)

Ingredients


2 cups dried, shredded unsweetened coconut

4 cups hot water




Preparation:


Note: if you only have large flakes of coconut, I recommend that you first grind them in the blender, Bullet, or coffee grinder.

When using hot water, don’t allow the temperature to go above 115 degrees (F) if you have any concerns about it overheating the coconut.

If you don’t have a temperature gauge, you can test with your finger.  You should be able to hold your finger in the water and not be burned.  But be careful using this method just in case you got the water too hot… I don’t want you to get burned. :)




Place the coconut and water in a blender. Allow it to rest for a few minutes to give the coconut time to soften before continuing onto the next step.

Blend on high for 2-3 minutes.

Pour the coconut milk into a nut milk bag or fine mesh strainer.

Do this by placing the nut bag inside a medium-sized mixing bowl. Pour the coconut mixture into the nut milk bag and squeeze all the liquid out.

Place the milk in an airtight container and store in the fridge for up to 3-4 days.

After sitting in the fridge overnight, a thin crust of coconut fat firmed up on top.  Replace the lid and shake vigorously.

You can freeze the milk for up to three months.  Once thawed, shake it well to mix it all back together.




Since there are no preservatives, the “cream” of the coconut milk may separate on the top when stored in the fridge. Just shake or stir before using it.

Save the coconut pulp and learn how to make flour out of it (here).





Blend for 2-3 minutes.






Nut bag tip:  When using a nut bag, turn it inside out so that the

the seam is on the outside to prevent the pulp from getting all

caught up in the seam, making it harder to clean.



Pour the coconut milk into the bag…



Gather up the fabric and gently squeeze the water out into the bowl.



The bag will contain coconut pulp… click (here) to make flour.



The following day after the coconut milk chilled the fats that had

floated to the top, firmed up.  I placed the lid on the jar and shook it

all back together.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



