Greek Nogurt (raw cashew yogurt)
https://nouveauraw.com/dairy-substitutes/greek-nogurt-raw-cashew-yogurt/



	Greek Nogurt

													    
    


				I love working in the kitchen… every day is a new experience and a new creation. This experiment turned out to be rather exciting and a bit of a mess.  Allow me to explain. Yesterday morning I started my cashew yogurt.  I poured the 2 1/2 cups of mixture into my 4-cup mason jar and threw a towel over it.  I then put it in the kitchen cabinet and shut the door so it could start to culture. Night-night, yogurt.



About 36 hours later (I actually forgot about it), I decided to check in on it. I lifted the towel to find my yogurt oozing down the side of the jar, creating a puddle around it. With wide eyes, I lifted the jar out and gently placed it on the counter.  Was I dealing with a volcano here?  Was it going to explode?

I took a spoon and started to stir the top, and within seconds it deflated, just like a soufflé!   During the fermentation process, small bubbles had formed and caused the expansion.  But once stirred, the bubbles collapsed and left me with the original 2 1/2 cups of “yogurt.” Now if that wasn’t fun!

After I gave it a good stir, I tasted it. TANG-ZIPPITY-DO-DA! For me, the level of fermentation was spot on, but this is where the beauty of creating your own yogurt comes into play.  You can ferment for 8 hours for a milder flavor, or allow it to continue up to 48 hours if you really want it to pack a punch!

If you can’t have nuts, try the Coconut Yogurt.  If you can eat nuts but can’t locate young thai coconuts, give this recipe a try.  So great to have options.

There are so many beautiful things that you can do with this recipe, or with any yogurt recipe.


Drinking yogurt:  Mix in your favorite milk to achieve the desired thickness, and drink!

Fruit yogurt: Add fresh fruit to the yogurt. You can place it on top, on the bottom, or stirred in.

Create a parfait with layers of yogurt, granola, fresh fruits, or nuts.

Add in savory spices and create an incredible variety of flavored dips for raw crackers or veggies.


Ingredients:

Yields 2 1/2 cups


1 1/2 cups raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 cup filtered water

2 Tbsp honey/maple syrup or stevia to taste

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1 probiotic capsule (1/4 tsp powder)


Preparation:


First and foremost, make sure all the utensils and pieces of equipment you use for culturing are sterilized to avoid growing bad bacteria.

If at any time you see mold–fuzzy, black, or pink–it will need to be tossed.




Soak the cashews in 2 1/2 cups of water.  Cashews swell during the soaking process.  Once they are through soaking, drain and rinse.

Clean the blender with warm soapy water and rinse with really hot water.

Place the cashews, water, sweetener, vanilla, and probiotic (powder only, throw away the capsule) in a high-powered blender and blend on high for 2-4 minutes.

This is done to turn the cashews into a creamy texture, and also the warmth from the blender will jump-start the fermentation process.

Blend until the yogurt is perfectly smooth. We want the best mouth-feel we can get.

If you don’t own a high-powered blender,  wait to add the probiotics until the very end, when the cashew cream is smooth.  Otherwise, you risk overheating the probiotics.




Use a glass jar or bowl that has been washed and rinsed in hot water.  Transfer the yogurt to the fermenting container.

Cover and place in a dark spot for 8-48 hours.

If you wish to speed up the process, you can position the container in a dehydrator set at 110 (F) for  4 – 7 hours.

Taste test and see if you want it to ferment longer.




Once done, stir the yogurt, place a tight lid on it, and store it in the fridge.   It will thicken as it chills.  It should last roughly 5 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



