Rosemary Caramel Apple Pie ala Mode (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/desserts/carmel-apple-crumble/



	Rosemary Caramel Apple Pie ala Mode

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

You might be questioning the idea of adding rosemary to an apple pie.  If you would, I would like to ask for you to trust me on this. Rosemary adds a subtle, herbal undertone that doesn’t overwhelm the other flavors. It transforms it from an ordinary apple pie to a sophisticated apple pie.

Let’s talk ala mode…

Back when I was living at home, my mom, dad, and I went out to eat at a cafe located in what I refer to as the “boondocks.” It teetered on the outskirts of town in an old stand-alone house that has been converted into a cafe.

My dad used to deliver groceries to them, so he knew the owners quite well.  It was one of those mom and pop types of places that cooked down-home comfort food. The husband stayed in the back cooking and the wife… whom I referred to as mama chef was an elderly woman who tended to everything else. She had a head of gray hair, walked with a hitch in her giddy-up, and had a curved back from the tireless years of serving tables. She shuffled her feet as she walked, was slow to smile, but had a soft and gentle presence about her.

One of the things that they were known for was their homemade pies.  She always had a list of them written out on a chalkboard.  And when I say list… I mean list. She made every flavor imaginable, well except for Rosemary Caramel Apple Pie. :)

One particular day, after completing our meal, mama chef came out and informed us that we could select a piece of pie off of the menu… as she nodded her head back and to the left, to indicate the chalkboard behind her. I hopped up and walked up to the towering board so I could better examine it.  This was a real treat, and I was going to take my time in selecting thee perfect piece of pie. It wasn’t very often that we got dessert at a restaurant.

After some time and much deliberation, I returned to the table where my parents were lost in conversation.  Without being detected, I slid into the booth quietly, waiting for mama chef to return. I wildly swung my legs as they dangled from the height of the bench that we were sitting on… and my mouth was watering like crazy.  As we waited, I kept looking back at the board, double guessing my choice… but I had pretty much settled on it, so I turned my attention to the fierce wind blowing outside.

Soon, Mama chef returned. She stood at the edge of the table, with her weight positioned on one leg and her hands tucked under the apron on her hips. “Well? What is it?” To anyone else, she might have come off abrupt or even possibly a little rude, but even with my young years I could see the tireless days nestled in the bags under her eyes, the back pain she was trying to soften by shifting her weight from leg to leg… and the way she curled her fingers under her apron as if to hide the crippling arthritis that prevented her from writing down the orders…

Dad piped up and requested a slice of warm peach pie. She turned towards mom with that look of, “Well?”… and mom quickly asked for a slice of apple pie. Then mama chef turned her eyes to me; I knew that was my cue, so I happily blurted out, “I will have a slice of Ala Mode please!!”  With a look of question in her eyes, she asked, “A piece of what?” I would like a piece of Ala Mode please… and can I have ice cream with that too?  Everyone started laughing… I felt my cheeks turn pink… I was confused.  “Had I read the board wrong?  Did I mispronounce it?” I am embarrassed to say that it took them about three times trying to explain to me what ala mode meant.  Mama Chef asked me what I thought ala mode pie was.  I told her that I didn’t really know but it sounded fancy, and since dessert was free, I wanted something expensive. lol

She laughed all the way to the back of the kitchen.  As she returned to the table, she placed our pies in front of us. As she slid mine in front of me, she said that I made her day and the whole dinner was on the house.  So every time I see a piece of pie with ice cream on top, I always secretly wish that I too could have a slice of Ala mode with ice cream on top. Hehe, I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please comment below and have a blessed day, amie sue  (editor’s note: this brought tears to my eyes… bob)

Ingredients:

yields 8″ Springform pan

Crust:


1 1/2 cups raw pecans, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup or 6 large Medjool dates

1/4 cup chocolate ganache


Caramel:


1/2 cup raw almond butter

1/2 cup maple syrup

1/2 cup date paste

2 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp minced fresh rosemary

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Filling:


6 medium Pink Lady apples, cored, peeled, and diced

1/2 cup caramel sauce (from above)

1/4 cup chopped almonds

1/2 tsp Allspice


Preparation:

Crust:


In a food processor fitted with the “S” blade, combine the walnuts, pecans, and salt. Process the nuts to a small crumble.

Add the dates and ganache.  Process until the batter sticks together when pinched.

If you are unable to make the ganache, you can omit and replace it with 2 Tbsp of water.




Line the base of an 8-9″ Springform pan with plastic wrap or parchment paper.

Press firmly and evenly into the base of the pan, bringing it up the sides a little bit. See photo below. I went for the rustic look. Set aside.


 Caramel sauce:


In a high-powered blender combine the almond butter, sweetener, date paste, vanilla, rosemary, and salt.  Blend until creamy.

Spread all but 1/2 cup of the caramel sauce on top of the crust.


Filling:


Wash, peel, and dice the apples into small squares.  Place in a medium mixing bowl.

Add the 1/2 cup caramel sauce, almonds, allspice, and salt.  Mix well with your hands, so the apples are well coated.

If you don’t have Allspice, you can create your own by combining the following; for 1 teaspoon of allspice, combine 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon, 1/2 tsp ground cloves, and a pinch of ground nutmeg.




Pour into the crust pan.

Place the Springform pan in the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 2-4 hours.

This softens the apples and brings all the flavors together.

NOTE: you don’t have to dehydrate this recipe if you are short on time or don’t own one… but I highly recommend it. Nothing beats warm apple pie, plus the warming process really melds the flavors making the pie so delicious.




Enjoy warm, perhaps add a scoop of raw ice cream on top… or enjoy cold later on.

Will keep for 3-5 days in the fridge.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason why.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				Press the crust into the bottom and part way up the edges.
				
			
				
			
				
				Add the rosemary caramel sauce..
				

			
				
			
				
				Spread around evenly…
				
			
				
			
				
				Toss diced apples with other ingredients…
				

			
				
			
				
				Place the filling in the pie and pop in the dehydrator.
				
			
				
			
				
				You can see a slight change in color after being in the dehydrator.
				

			
				
			
				
				Add ice cream and serve warm.
				
			
				
			
				
				Enjoy and don’t leave a crumb behind. :)
				

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



