Crème Fraîche Blush Peach Pie (raw, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/desserts/creme-fraiche-blush-peach-pie-raw-vegan/



	Crème Fraîche Blush Peach Pie

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, sugar-free option ~

Crème Fraîche (krem ˈfreSH) is a type of thick cream made from heavy cream with the addition of buttermilk, sour cream, or yogurt. I didn’t use any heavy cream, buttermilk, sour cream, or yogurt… but the texture of this pie is as if I had.  Before my years of dabbling in raw foods, I had no earthly clue that cashews could offer up such a wonderful texture and similar flavor when paired with the right ingredients.

Before my years of dabbling in raw foods, I had no earthly clue that cashews could offer up such a wonderful texture and similar flavor when paired with the right ingredients.

Before my years of dabbling in raw foods, I had no earthly clue that cashews could offer up such a wonderful texture and similar flavor when paired with the right ingredients.

If you are unable to enjoy the culinary miracle that cashews have to offer, you can use the flesh of Young Thai Coconuts, blended to a very thick consistency or you can use organic, BPA-free, canned, full-fat coconut milk.  If you do use the canned version, place the can in the fridge and allow it to chill overnight.

The next morning, gently turn the can over and open it. Pour the liquid out (reserving for a smoothie) and scoop out the very thick coconut cream in the bottom.  You will need 2 cups worth which might be 3-4 cans. Thought I would address this now since the question always pops up when discussing substitutions.

This cream pie has a wonderfully soft and smooth texture.  Because I used fresh fruit, I choose not to freeze the pie.  I don’t care for the icy mouth-feel of frozen fruit, plus I wanted the pie to have a fluffy-cream-like feel.  You can make this pie ahead of time and freeze it.  I would recommend transferring it from the freezer to the fridge the day before serving, so it can thaw.  You can place the fresh diced peaches on top than or right before serving.

The base of the pie has a thick cream peachy flavor that married perfectly with the gentle firmness of the fresh diced peaches. The key is use perfectly ripe peaches.  Anything less will create a lack of flavor in your creation, and nobody wants that!  I removed the skin from the peaches that I used, and when I did, I was able to easily remove the skin just by grabbing it with my fingernails… that gives you a good idea as to how ripe they were.  Enjoy the summer freshness of this amazing creampie! Blessings. amie sue

8/24/17 ~ I made this cheesecake today and removed the added sweeteners, replacing it with Markus Sweet which is made from Lohan Guo Monkfruit and Erythritol, a natural alcohol sugar found in the human body made from non-gmo plant sources. It has no effect on the gastrointestinal tract: no gas, no diarrhea. It’s zero calories, zero glycemic, and doesn’t raise blood sugar or insulin. Great for diabetics. Does not feed Candida or yeast. A good option to make this pie with no added sugars. Enjoy, many blessings. amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 9″ pie

Crust: 


1 cups rolled gluten-free oats, soaked and dehydrated

2 1/4 cups shredded coconut

1/4 tsp  (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp (2.5 g) liquid stevia

1/4 cup coconut butter, softened

1/2 cup water

2 Tbsp (40 g)  maple syrup (can omit)

1 cup (195g ) diced peaches


Filling: (4 cups batter)


2 cups cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 1/2 cups organic diced peaches (300 g)

1 Tbsp (14 g) fresh lemon juice

1/2 cup (162 g)  maple syrup (sugar-free opt. below)

1 tsp (5 g) liquid stevia

1 tsp vanilla extract or 1/2 tsp (2 g) vanilla powder

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

3/4 cup (156 g) raw coconut oil, melted

2 Tbsp (12 g)  powdered sunflower lecithin

2 cups (418 g) organic diced peaches, divided


Topping:


2-3 cups more diced fresh peaches.


Preparation:

Crust:


Line the base of the pan with plastic wrap or give it a light coating of coconut oil.

This will aid in removing the cake from the pan.




Place the oats, coconut, and salt in the food processor, using the “S” blade, and process until broken down as fine as you can get it.

Add stevia, coconut butter, water, and maple syrup.  Process until the batter sticks together when pinched.

Loosely place the crust batter around the bottom of the pan.

With a gentle hand, drag some of the batter up along the sides of the pan.  Complete the edge first, then the base.

Press the batter in firmly but evenly.

I use a straight-edged measuring cup to do this… see photos below.




Scatter 1 cup of diced peaches on the base of the crust. Set aside while you prepare the filling.



Filling:



Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.  Place in a high-speed blender.

In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, peaches, lemon juice sweeteners, vanilla, and salt.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm, stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.

For sugar-free use, 1/2 cup (81 g) Markus Sweet, powdered instead of the sweetener listed above.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.  The batter will start to thicken.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Pour the batter into the pan and gently tap the pan on the counter to remove any air bubbles.

Add the remaining 1 cup of diced peaches, letting them sink a bit into the filling.

Chill overnight or for 6-8 hours in the freezer.  Remove the day before serving, storing it in the fridge.

Pile on the 2 cups of diced peaches on top, making an attractive mound.

Store the cheesecake in the fridge for 3-5 days.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Click (here) to learn why I use stevia.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Why I use lecithin… click (here) to read about it.




		
		
			
				
			
				
				Line the pan with plastic wrap.
				
			
				
			
				
				Loosely place the crust batter in the pan.
				

			
				
			
				
				Gently spread and press the crust into the sides and base.
				
			
				
			
				
				Use a straight edged measuring cup to even it out.
				

			
				
			
				
				Spread 1 cup diced peaches on the base of the crust.
				
			
				
			
				
				Pour in the filling. 
				

			
				
			
				
				Spread and tap on the counter to bring up bubbles.
				
			
				
			
				
				Sprinkle more diced peaches on top, letting some sink in. Place in freezer.
				

			
				
			
				
				Remove once firm and decorate.
				
			
				
			
				
				Slice, serve, and eat!
				

		



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



