Ruby Red Velvet Cake (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/desserts/ruby-red-velvet-cake/



	Ruby Red Velvet Cake

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Why did I use the description of velvet when naming this cake? It’s not because it resembles a bright red velvet dress, it’s because the texture is so smooth and velvety.  And this here cake is moist, rich, and velvety if I do say so myself.

I created this cake for my girlfriend’s little girl, Elli.  She was cast in the local Nutcracker play here in Hood River. Elli played the part of a bonbon girl in the sugarplum fairy scene. She was adorable in her pink frilly dress peppered with white polka dots. And let’s not forget the matching bow that adorned her blonde piggy-tail. She reminded me of myself at that young tender age.

Elli was very nervous to be on the big stage (I can’t blame her) and I wanted to honor her bravery. She absolutely loved the cake and called it a “fancy princess cake just for me!”  She loved the colors of the frosting and the flowers the most. And still, talks about the special cake just to celebrate what she did. (and that was a year ago!).

Because food science intrigues me….

Because food science intrigues me, I had to do some quick research on how the Red velvet cake originated. The Big Red Velvet Bang took place when the chemical compounds found in old-fashioned American cocoa powder reacted with cake raising agents, vinegar, and buttermilk. This caused a rosy hue when baked. I love the science behind food.

Nowadays it comes from artificial food coloring that is used to get that deep red effect… It’s the most common artificial food coloring used not only in food but also cosmetics.  Ladies, check that makeup drawer of yours…. just saying. There are plenty of claims that it can be toxic, can causes allergies, and hyperactivity in children.  It comes from petroleum distillates or coal tars.  I couldn’t possibly create a cake for little Ms. Elli using that, now could I?

Before we dive into this recipe, let me encourage you to play around with different ways of decorating the cake.  You can, of course, do exactly as I did or you can be creative giving it a custom design for your own celebration.  I love to hear what you think, so please leave a comment below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 6” cake

Cake:


4 3/4 cups raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1 3/4 cups beet pulp

2 cups date paste

2 Tbsp coconut oil, melted

2 cups raw cacao powder

3/4 cup mesquite powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Frosting:


White cake frosting

Beet juice


Decoration:


Peppermint cookie dough

Shredded coconut


Preparation:

Cake:


Place the walnuts and salt in the food processor and process until it breaks down to a small crumble.

Add the cacao powder and pulse until it is mixed in well.

Remove the lid and place the beet pulp, and date paste around the inside of the bowl. Put the lid on and process until it turns into a dark red paste-like texture.

Be careful that you don’t over-process which will cause the natural oils of the walnuts release, leaving you with an oily cake.

You need to make beet juice, in order to get beet pulp, click (here) to learn how.




Line the pan with plastic wrap to aid with removal when the time comes.

Place the cake in the freezer overnight or until solid.


Frosting:


Create the frosting as the recipe indicates.

Remove 1 cup of frosting and place in a bowl.  Add 2 Tbsp of beet juice and mix together.

Place the frosting(s) in the fridge overnight to set up.


Decoration (optional):


Create the peppermint cookie dough and cut out the shapes that you desire.  These require dehydration so all of these components can be made the day ahead.


Assembling the cake:


Frost the cake with a thin crumb layer.  Place back in the freezer for an hour.

Remove and frost the cake again, doing your best to smooth the surfaces with an off-set spatula.

Place a smaller ring on top of the cake to use as a template. I used the ring of a smaller springform pan.

Sprinkle a layer of shredded coconut within the ring, then remove it.

Load a piping bag with the pink frosting and pipe a ring around the edge of the coconut.

Place a dot of frosting on the back of the decorative cookies and press against the cake.  The frosting acts as glue.

Keep the cake covered in the fridge for up to 3-4 days.  Or freeze for 1 month.


Additional Cake Tips:


How to frost a cake.  Click here.

How to slice a cake.  Click here.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.




























I was given permission to share two photos of our guest star in
today’s post… May I present little Miss Elli, the bon-bon girl.


And here she is afterward with her special cake.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



