Cake Decorating Party Sprinkles (raw / vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/desserts/raw-cake-decorating-party-sprinkles/



	Cake Decorating Party Sprinkles

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Cake Decorating Party Sprinkles were created to put a smile on your face.  They are vibrant in color and add a little sparkle to just about anything.  Sprinkles do need a sticky surface that they can stick to.

The first thing that comes to mind is frosting… but I quickly discovered that if you just lick your finger and stick it in the sprinkle bowl, they will stick, making them finger-licking-good.  :)  It’s the simple things in life that entertain me. hehe

Commercially made sprinkles are made of; sugar, corn syrup, cornstarch, food-grade wax, and artificial coloring and flavoring.   But these sprinkles are made with shredded coconut and a few natural food dyes such as; turmeric, beet juice, and so forth.

I didn’t really list out an exact recipe for this creation because you can really play around with all the colors.  You can make a diluted and a thick concentration of each color, giving you unlimited shades.  I shared some ideas down below on what to use for natural food colorings… but be creative, look to natural (produce department) and have fun!

They are so easy to make, and it would be a fun thing to do with the kiddos.  Which got me thinking… sprinkles don’t have to be used just with desserts… what a sweet surprise to toss some on top of a breakfast yogurt!  Well, that would start my day off with a smile. :)

I have had a jar of these sitting on the kitchen island and they have become quite the conversation piece with our guests.  Everyone picks up the jar and states how pretty the colors are and asks what it is.   I am more than happy to share. :)


Ingredients:

Sprinkle base:


Raw shredded coconut


Food coloring:

Commercially made natural food coloring or

Red / Pink: use beet, raspberry, cranberry juice

Yellow / Orange:  use carrot or turmeric powder

Purple: use juiced red cabbage

Green: use spinach juice or spirulina powder

Blue: use blueberry juice (add a little beet juice for fun shades)




Preparation:



Pre-made colorings:  add several drops to 1 tsp of water.  You can make the color as light or dark as you wish by adding more or less dye.

Veggie and fruit juice for coloring: use it at full strength or dilute with a little water.  Again, you have complete control on what shade of color it produces.  Be sure to strain the juice from any veggie/fruit pulp so you don’t have weird chunks in your sprinkles.

Turmeric and spiralina powder:  premix them with water to create the shade of yellow and green that you want.

Measure out the amount of shredded coconut that you want to dye in a small bowl.  A good starting point is 1 tsp of colored liquid to 1 Tbsp of shredded coconut.

Add the coloring solution and mix thoroughly until coconut is completely and evenly coated with color.  For vibrant colors, don’t dilute the coloring liquid.  If you want paler colors, add more water.

Spread the dyed coconut on a dehydrator tray and dry at 115 degrees (F) for about 2-4 hours, or until completely dry.  If you want to keep the colors separated, I suggest using a different tray for each color.  Just depends on the quantity of sprinkles you are making.

To store, mix colors together after drying if you want to and place in an air-tight container.  Store at room temp.





 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



