"True Blue Blueberry Pie" (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/desserts/true-blue-blueberry-pie/



	True Blue Blueberry Pie

													    
    


				True Blue Blueberry Pie


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The secret to this pie lies within the blueberry… it is called pectin.  And though they are high in pectin, they need a little extra help when it comes to gelling, especially when making raw pies versus cooked ones.  Acid and pectin interact in gelling.

This is why some recipes for preserves, such as strawberry, often call for adding lemon juice or another acid.  Sugar is also needed to aid in this process.   This pie is so simple, all you need are blueberries, lemon juice, and dates.   Beautiful!

Where we may curse the name of the blueberry when it stains our towels or clothing… we can also smile with admiration down at those stains… the colorful pigments that give blueberries the rich shades of blue, purple, and red mean that they are rich in not only in color but in antioxidants.

For this recipe, I used organic, frozen, thawed, and drained blueberries.  Studies show that we can freeze blueberries without doing damage to their delicate anthocyanin antioxidants.   If you want to increase the nutrients that come budded up in those purple “jackets” of theirs… aim to eat organic ones.

Blueberries are considered low on the glycemic index (GI). The glycemic index is a common way of identifying the potential impact of food on our blood sugar level once we’ve consumed and digested that food.  Blueberries come in under 50, which is low.    So, I hope you make this pie and enjoy it with friends and family.  Please do keep me posted on what you think.  Oh, the pie that is all white in the photo… that is my Raw Blueberry Vanilla Bean Cheesecake.  They complement one another quite well.

Ingredients:

Makes one 9-inch pie

Crust:


2 cups raw almond flour – made from whole nuts

1 1/2 cup shredded coconut

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3/4 cup date paste


Blueberry pie filling:


4 cups organic blueberries

3/4 cup pitted Medjool dates, soaked in water for 10 minutes and drained

1 Tbsp lemon juice

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:

Crust:


Cover the base of the deep-dish tart pan with plastic wrap and lightly coat the edges with coconut oil.

 This will help with removal when you are ready to enjoy the pie.




In a food processor, fitted with an “S” blade, combine the almond flour, coconut, and salt.  Pulse together to mix.

Add the dates and process until the batter sticks together when pressed.

Pile the crust in the center of the pie pan.  I like to start with the edges first.

Press the crust against the sides of the pan, shaping it so that its edges are flush with the rim.  I made mine about 1/4” thick.

Now press the crust down on the bottom of the pan, pressing evenly and firmly all around the bottom, making sure to press firmly where the bottom of the pan joins the sides.




Set aside while you make the filling.


Blueberry filling:


You can use fresh or thawed and drained frozen blueberries for this pie.

In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, place 2 cups of blueberries, dates, lemon juice, vanilla, and salt.  Process for 10 seconds, until well mixed and broken down to a sauce.

Add the remaining blueberries and pulse 2-4x.  You don’t want to totally break down the blueberries,  leave some chunks for texture.

Remove the crust from the freezer and pour the filling into the pan.  Spread the filling around evenly.

Place in the fridge for several hours so it can set.

The pie will last 2-3 days in the fridge.  Make sure it is well covered to protect it from fridge odors.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



