Mini Pumpkin Pies (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/desserts/mini-pumpkin-pies/



	Mini Pumpkin Pies

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

If these aren’t adorable, I don’t know what is!  I have a fascination for itty-bitty things, so it shouldn’t really be a surprise how much this recipe excites me.

I would have loved these as a little girl when I was having my little tea parties.  It would have been a nice change from my mini mud pies that I made and so thoroughly enjoyed. haha

This simple recipe was born all in the name of… leftovers.  I had a small amount of pumpkin puree, well 1/3 of a cup to be exact, and enough coconut butter lining the jar to amount to 2 tablespoons and poof!  Mini Pumpkin Pies!   They really couldn’t be any simpler to make.  In fact, this would be a perfect recipe to make with your kids, grandkids, neighbors kids, or if need be, rent-a-kid.  :)

In five minutes you can have a batch of these whipped up and in the freezer.  By the time you grab your favorite book, put on your PJ’s, and find your slippers, they will be ready for you to indulge on as your kick your feet up and relax.

Seriously, I timed this scenario out. :)  Enjoy! P.S. I used the Wilton Peanut Butter Cup Candy Mold part #2115-1522.  I purchased mine at Michael’s Craft Store. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 11 mini pies




1/3 cup pure pumpkin puree

2 Tbsp coconut butter/manna, softened

10 drops stevia

1/4 tsp pumpkin spice


Preparation:


In a small bowl combine all of the ingredients and mix well.

Tip: make sure your pumpkin puree is at room temperature when you add the softened coconut butter.  If you add the coconut butter to cold ingredients, it will harden and clump.  This makes it difficult to create a smooth batter.

If you don’t have pumpkin spice, you can make it by combining the following in a jar: 4 tsp cinnamon, 2 tsp ground ginger, 1 tsp Allspice, and 1 tsp nutmeg. Put the lid on and shake well.




Place the batter in a Zip-lock bag, squeeze the air out and with scissors cut a small hole in the corner.

This is your piping bag and will help you control the batter as you place it in the mold.




Fill the mold cavities and then tap the mold on the counter top to causing the batter to settle into the mold and bringing up any air bubbles.

Place a whole pecan on top of each mini pie and slide the tray into the freezer.

When ready to eat, remove from the freezer and enjoy!  They will soften quite a bit if left out.  So either eat them all up or put the leftovers back in the freezer.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



