Cherry Chip Cake Batter
https://nouveauraw.com/desserts/cherry-chip-cake-batter/



	Cherry Chip Cake Batter

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

So, I had a little extra almond pulp on my hands… hmm, not a little, A LOT.  Now, don’t misunderstand me, I am not complaining.  I yearn for almond pulp but rarely have any.  Lately, I have found myself in the unique situation that required me to make almond milk almost every day.  Thus, a gorgeous abundance of almond pulp appeared!

I realize that many people don’t acquire such copious amounts of nut pulp at one time, trust me, it’s new for me too.  So, I just recommend that you start a little stockpile in your freezer.  Each time you make a nut milk, put the pulp in a freezer proof container and stash it away.  Then in time, you too will find yourself with enough of it to play around with.  :)

The almond pulp that I used was moist. Keep in mind that every batch of almond milk will vary in moisture content. It all depends on how much you squeeze the living-day-lights out the nut bag when making your milk.

I haven’t attempted this recipe with ground down nuts.  It would definitely have a very different texture, and you are welcome to give it a whirl.  But almond pulp is in a class of its own when it comes to texture.  It is very light, moist and “fluffy.”  It is kind of right in there in between a nutty raw cake and real baked cake.

So, when making this cake batter, ILolwent all crazy with the quantities, and it made a very large batch.  You can downsize it if you wish.  I ended up with about 13 cups of batter!  All I could think of was Cherry Chip Cake, and apparently, I was REALLY craving it. lol,   I ended up making several different cakes with this batter so to ease confusion I decided to write this up a bit differently.

This post will give you the basic recipe for the cake batter and an icing that I used.  I will then create two other posts that describe the different cakes that I made.  This way, it just might get your creative juices flowing, and you will think of ways to create your own masterpieces.  Cake pans come in ooooodles of different sizes.  In my opinion, I really should own every one of them. Hehe  “Hi, my name is Amie Sue, and I have a cake pan fetish.”

So, Cherry Chip Cake… aaah.  This was my all-time favorite cake growing up.  Every year when my birthday rolled around my mom would ask me what kind of cake I wanted. CHERRY CHIP!  She always knew the answer; I think she just liked to witness my response.  So for about 20 years of my life, I had Cherry Chip Cake, by Betty Crocker, for my birthday.  Last year my mom called me from Alaska and asked me what kind of cake I wanted.  I giggled and said, “CHERRY CHIP PLEASE!”  Number one, she wasn’t going to be with me to celebrate my birthday and number two, she knew I wouldn’t eat a boxed cake, so it was all for the sake of memories.

A week later, guess what showed up in the mailbox?  My mom mailed a box of Betty Crocker Cherry Chip cake mix.  She said she had to hunt high and low for it, and the box was old and dusty.  Lost in old-time memories, I sat on the counter and mulled over the writings on the box. It had expired two years previously. hahaha.  Never knew that cake mix expired.  To funny.  Anyway, I created this cake in memory of my all-time favorite childhood cake.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 13 cups batter

 Cake batter:


1 1/2 cups date paste

3/4 cup coconut oil, melted

3 Tbsp vanilla

1 tsp vanilla liquid stevia

1 tsp sea salt

9 cups packed, moist almond pulp

1 cup almond milk

1/2 cup shredded coconut flakes

1 cup organic cherries, pitted and roughly chopped

1 cup organic cherries, blended


Preparation:


In your mixer bowl combine the date paste, coconut oil, vanilla, and salt.  Start the mixer out at a low speed then increase speed to high.  Creating a creamy and smooth consistency.  This will take 5-15 minutes.

You want to create a cake-like batter.

Be careful to not over process.

If the mixture starts to become darker in color and has an oily look, you want to stop mixing and move on to the next step.  Don’t worry, it isn’t ruined, it will still taste just as good!




In a LARGE bowl combine the almond pulp, almond milk, shredded coconut, chopped cherries and blended cherries.  Pour the date mixture over it all and mix well with your hands.  There is no getting around it; your hands are the best tools for this job!

Please see the following links for cake ideas.   Cherry Chip Layer Cake and Chocolate Cherry Chip Bundt Cake


Additional Cake Tips:


How to frost a cake.  Click here.

How to slice a cake.  Click here.

How much frosting is needed for a cake? Click here.

Need a basic white frosting recipe?  Click here.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



