Chunky Tomato Salsa (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/chunky-tomato-salsa/



	Chunky Tomato Salsa

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Salsa recipes are a dime a dozen.  I have made heaps of them throughout the years but I’ve never documented them… does anybody?  While I was constructing this salsa, my Hispanic friend, Adan, looked at me and said, “At home, we  do it differently.” When I asked how they made it, he said, “We don’t measure anything out, we just throw it all in the bowl.”  I laughed and assured that I usually do the same but wanted for once to write it down so I could share it.

Some like it hot!

Bob and I like a little spice, so I pulled in a squirt of Siracha (this isn’t raw, omit if this concerns you) and some fresh, diced jalapeño. Both add heat but in different ways. When selecting jalapeño peppers, remember that some are hotter than others. Mature peppers that are dark green and a little wrinkled will be hotter than younger ones.  It is best to test the heat before adding it to the salsa otherwise if too hot; it could ruin the dish.

Another “heat” that I added to the salsa was cumin. It’s not really hot; it just gives a pleasant spicy, warm, pungent aroma and taste when mixed with all the other ingredients. There’s nothing mundane about this salsa.

The fresh ripe tomatoes give a refreshing hit from the gentle spicy heat. The texture is chunky but consistent. The flavors are well-integrated. It doesn’t start out hot, but after eating a fair amount, a pleasant heat sneaks up on you.

Ultimately this salsa can be harmed by too much cilantro or heat, to the point of drowning out the other flavors, so make sure you start out with less and add more as you feel it is needed.

Looking for something to dip into the salsa?  Try my Chili Corn Chips by clicking (here).  A match made in heaven… well actually my kitchen. Hehe  I hope you enjoy and have a blessed day, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 1/4 cups

2 cups (400 g) diced tomatoes

1/2 cup (68 g) diced red or yellow onion

1/4-1/2 cup cilantro, minced

2 Tbsp lime juice

1 Tbsp raw coconut vinegar

1 tsp Siracha

1 tsp maple syrup

1/2 (12 g) jalapeño

2 small cloves minced garlic

1/2 tsp Himalayan salt

1/2 tsp ground cumin

1 tsp chili powder



Preparation:


Place the diced tomatoes, onion, cilantro, lime juice, vinegar, Siracha, sweetener, jalapeño, garlic, chili powder, salt, and cumin in a medium-sized bowl.  Toss to mix everything really well, so the spices get distributed.

If you want to make it totally sugar-free, add 1-2 drops of liquid NuNatural stevia.  The sweetener is added to give the salsa a well-rounded balance of flavors.




Be sure to wear gloves when handling the jalapeño.  The invisible oils within them can haunt you for the rest of the day.

Enjoy right away or chill.  This salsa tastes better the next day.  Time helps to meld all the wonderful flavors together.

Salsa should keep well for 2-3 days.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



