Dijon Dressing - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/dijon-dressing/



	Dijon Dressing

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

What’s a salad without dressing? Naked… just plain naked. Greens and dressing go hand in hand, and you can hardly enjoy one without the other. The primary job of a dressing is to lightly coat a salad without overwhelming it. It ought to enhance the flavors of the ingredients not highjack them.

Salad dressings are a great place to really save some money. At the market, they can be so expensive and filled with unwanted ingredients. And by creating your own, you take control of the dressing’s flavor balance; acidity, sweetness, and seasoning.

Every weekend, sit down and map out the week’s menu. Don’t forget to include condiments. Make up enough for the week assuring that your recipes will remain fresh and full of flavor.

Raw salad dressings have been a staple in our kitchen for years now. The other day, I made this again, but in the heat of the moment, I realized that I was out of oil, so I soaked 1/2 cup of cashews. After soaking and draining them, I threw them in the blender with the remaining ingredients, along with 1/2 cup of water.  It turned out delicious. Never be afraid to experiment. You never know what you will stumble upon.

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please keep me posted down below if you decide to make it. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1/4 cup fresh lemon juice

1 tsp powdered mustard

1/4 cup olive oil

1/4 cup cold pressed flax oil (I used Hemp)

2 Tbsp minced red onion

1 Tbsp Dijon Mustard or Sweet & Spicy Mustard

2 tsp agave (I used stevia this round)

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp fresh garlic, minced

Pinch of pepper


Preparation:


In a small bowl, whisk the lemon juice and the powdered mustard.

Add the oils, red onion, mustard, sweetener, salt, and garlic. Whisk well.

Store in a sealed glass jar in the fridge for up to four days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



