Strawberries n' Cream Fruit Dip (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/strawberries-n-cream-fruit-dip/



	Strawberries n’ Cream Fruit Dip

													    
    


				
Strawberries n’Cream Fruit Dip


 raw / vegan / gluten-free

This light and refreshing fruit dip pairs wonderfully with any season’s fruit.  In fact, this recipe could and can be enjoyed in several ways.  #1 – fruit dip.  #2 – as a pudding. #3 – freeze it in popsicle molds. #4 – spread on sweet crackers. #5 – mix with granola… thinking…  oh, give this great cracker a try… Strawberry Apricot Coconut Crackers.  Just lovely.

I love recipes like this because I can stretch them out by making multiple dishes from the same recipe.   That makes it time-saving and adds variety to the weekly menu. Saving time in the kitchen is often a priority for the person who is busy and on the go.  I hope recipes like these inspire you!

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 1 3/4 cups


1 cup cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 cup diced organic strawberries

1 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil

Pinch Himalayan salt

2 Tbsp raw honey or equivalent


Preparation:


Start things off by soaking the cashews in 3 cups of water for 2+ hours.

This softened the cashews so they can blend creamy smooth.

This also helps to reduce enzyme inhibitors that can upset digestion.




Place the strawberries in the blender along with the honey, coconut oil, and salt.  Blend until the strawberries resemble a puree.

You can use any liquid sweetener that you wish.

I don’t recommend using a food processor because it won’t get the dip creamy enough.

By blending the strawberries and other ingredients together first,  it will create a liquid base to help blend in the cashews.




Drain and discard the soak water from the cashews.  Add them to the blender and blend until the mixture is completely smooth.

Taste test and see if sweet enough.  Remember, since this is a fruit dip, you don’t want it to be too sweet since the fruit you are dipping will have a natural sweetness to it as well.

Enjoy right away or place in the fridge to chill.

The dip should keep 3-4 days.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients:



What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn more about cashews (here).



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



