Creamy Garlic Dill Sauce - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/creamy-garlic-dill-sauce/



	Creamy Garlic Dill Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The creamy texture and rich taste of blended cashews makes for a delightful, dairy-free, sauce that can be thinned to make a salad dressing.  I love two-for-one recipes!

When creating a cashew based non-dairy recipes, the key is in the soaked and blending process of the cashews.  There are several reasons that I believe in soaking nuts for, but in sauce making, the soaking will soften them.  This enhances your chance to create a creamy mouth-feel.  I see so many people skip this process and I also see them under blending.  Sauces are not meant to be grainy feeling.

The garlic is rather strong so when you make your sauce add one clove at a time and taste test as you go.  Personally, I love garlic.  Just make sure your partner has some too and all will be good in the breath department. hehe   When I first made this recipe I did a single batch, my husband and I ate all of it and then made more, more and more… just sharing this to say… you might want to double the recipe from the get-go. :)  Enjoy! Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Serves 1


1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hours

1/2 lemon, juiced

1 Tbsp cold pressed olive oil

2 Tbsp water

3 cloves garlic, minced

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 Tbsp fresh dill, minced


Preparation:


Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 4 cups of water.

Soak for at least 2 hours. Read more about why (here).

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain and rinse.




In the blender combine cashews, lemon, olive oil, water, garlic, and salt. Blend until a creamy sauce is created.

Hand mix in the dill.

Taste to see if more salt is needed.

The sauce can be warmed in a dehydrator if wished.

This sauce is great served on top zucchini pasta or as a veggie dip.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



