Raw Fluffy Peanut Butter Dip
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/fluffy-peanut-butter-dip/



	Fluffy Peanut Butter Dip

													    
    


				Fluffy Peanut Butter Dip


This dip is meant to be a once in a while treat.  Please don’t mistake it for something that ought to be enjoyed by the spoonful on a rainy afternoon.  What? No, I didn’t sit around eating a jar of this yummy-in-my-tummy peanut butter dip… while it rained outside. :)

What kind of girl do you take me for?   I could have, though! No doubt about it.   In fact, if you don’t have much for willpower, don’t make it.  There, you have been warned; I can carry on with a clean conscience.

I created this recipe on a whim, and after taking a small taste test, I knew I had to use it up before I inhaled the whole jar. So I created my Raw Chocolate-Peanut Butter Truffle Cream Pie just to make sure that I didn’t fall to temptation. Phew, close call, but I saved myself.  Errr, so I thought… have you seen that pie!  Good-golly! What was I thinking?   That was like putting salt on an open wound.

Anyway,  this dip turned out incredibly creamy and decadent.  You will need a high-powered blender to get it nice and smooth.  If you wanted to extend this recipe, meaning giving it more volume,  you could add a cup of  Greek Nogurt to it, and it would be heavenly.

There are many ways to enjoy this dip; serve it with sliced apples, add a spoonful into a Thai-inspired peanut sauce,  ice the top of a cupcake, dip bananas into it,  serve over ice cream… I am positive that you won’t struggle with what to do with it once made. I hope you enjoy this simple recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1/2 cup natural, unsalted peanut butter

1/2 cup maple syrup or raw agave nectar

1/2 cup date paste

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


In a high-powered blender combine the peanut butter, sweetener, date paste, vanilla, and salt.  Process until smooth.

I use organic roasted peanuts when making my own peanut butter unless I can get my hands on raw jungle peanuts, which aren’t often.




Stop occasionally to scrape the sides down.

Store in the fridge in a glass container for about 2 weeks. To soften, leave out at room temperature for a few hours.


 

 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



