Rich Caramel Butterscotch Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/rich-caramel-butterscotch-sauce/



	Rich Caramel Butterscotch Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Butterscotch is not a common flavor that I come across in the raw world of flavors.  But this recipe reminded me of that warm, buttery, rich flavor that butterscotch imparts.   Must have been the perfect combination of ingredients.  I would like to say that I had planned it that way, but I didn’t. :) Planned or not; I wanted to dive headfirst into this sauce.

Have you ever seen that movie, Patch Adams?  There was an elderly woman (if I remember correctly) who had a life dream of sitting in a pool of spaghetti noodles. And before she passed away Patch Adams made that dream come true.

Before I pass, I hope that I have a “Patch Adams” in my life who will make my dream come true too.  What is my dream?  To sit in a tub of thick, creamy, lotion-like substance…I am not picky as to what it is… and if it happened to be this Rich “Caramel Butterscotch” Sauce… well, who am I to complain!

I use to work in a compounding pharmacy and would make thick, creamy, prescription ointments and creams.  EVERY time I made them, I fought the urge to bury my fingers in it.  I wonder what triggers such desires? :)   Am I the only one with this odd desire?  Fess up!

This sauce pairs beautifully with my Raw Macadamia Nut Ice Cream with Candied Pecans.  But I can also imagine it as a dip for sliced apples, or dollop on top of a piece of cake… all this thinking is making me hungry, so I best wrap this up.

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


4 oz Macadamia Nut Cream Base

3/4 cup Medjool dates, rehydrated

1/2 cup + 2 Tbsp water

1/4 cup almond butter

3 Tbsp candied pecans

1 Tbsp maple syrup or raw agave nectar

1/2 tsp Ceylon ground cinnamon

pinch sea salt


Preparation:


It is best to soften the dates prior to blending them.

Place the dates in a bowl and cover with warm water.

Let them sit for about 10 minutes or until soft.

When ready to use, hand-squeeze the excess water out and place the dates in the blender.




Add the macadamia nut cream base, water, almond butter, pecans, agave, cinnamon, and salt.  Blend on high until creamy smooth.  You can add more water if you want a thinner sauce.

Store the caramel sauce in a mason jar or squeeze bottle (my preference to ease of use.)  Keep in the fridge for up to 5 days.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				a close up of rich caramel butterscotch sauce served over raw vanilla ice cream
				
			
				
			
				
				a close up of rich caramel butterscotch sauce served over raw vanilla ice cream
				

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



