Bell Pepper Remoulade (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/red-pepper-remoulade/



	Bell Pepper Remoulade

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe came into play when my husband and I were attending Living Light Culinary Art Institute.  As one of our assignments, we had to present a 10-minute class instruction on how to make Red Pepper Remoulade.

Originally,  the assignment is designed for each individual person to do their own presentation, but in order to make room for a student to stay aboard my husband and I agreed to pair up.

It was rather interesting and entertaining trying to stretch out a teaching on such a simple recipe that only took minutes to make, between two people but we did it and had a great time.

I giggle still today when I reflect back to making that remoulade.  We stayed in the student Inn which had a kitchen for us to use so my honey and I practiced making this recipe one evening.

After we made our last batch I walked out of the kitchen an arm full of veggies and our sauce.  My husband asked where I was going.  “I am going to take a picture of our creation.”  I disappeared out the front door, looking for the perfect spot to take the picture.

I am sure that I looked funny to those driving by the house.  I displayed it on a tree stump. “Nope.” On the front porch. “Nope.” On a wooden bench. “Nope”.  Aaah I found the perfect spot!!  In the back yard, behind the house, up against the shed with the compost pile within 8′ of where I set up my photo shoot. lol  The things we foodies will do. Update 6 years later: I have since updated the photo but I left the story about the first photo that I had taken. I was fun to reread it. :) Anyway, this recipe is very yummy and very versatile.  You can use it as a veggie dip, a sauce or a salad dressing.  It all depends on thin or thick you make it!

Ingredients:

yields 1 3/4 cups


1 1/2 cups, red, yellow, or orange bell peppers, seeded, chopped

1/2 cup raw pine nuts or cashews, soaked, rinsed, drained

1/4 cup water, or more if needed

1/2 Tbsp paprika

1/2 Tbsp raw Hot Mustard

1/2 tsp crushed garlic

1/4 tsp Himalayan salt

1/4 tsp black pepper

1/2 Tbsp agave nectar, if needed (see note)


Preparation:


Place all of the ingredients except the agave nectar in a high-powered blender, and puree until smooth.

Taste the blended mixture, and add up to 1/2 tbsp of agave nectar if it needs more sweetness.

Serve over vegetable dishes.

Store in a sealed glass jar in the refrigerator for up to two days.


Note: The sweetness of the remoulade is affected by the natural flavor of the peppers, so if the peppers are not sweet,

agave nectar can be added to achieve the desired flavor. Agave may also be used if the mustard is freshly made

and/or very hot since the agave mellows the heat of the mustard.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



