French Garden Italian Dill Dressing - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/french-garden-dill-dressing/



	French Garden Italian Dill Dressing

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This is a wonderfully thick and creamy dressing.  Sunflower seeds enhance your health by supplying significant amounts of vitamin E, magnesium, and selenium.

Since sunflower seeds have a high-fat content and are prone to rancidity, it is best to store them in an airtight container in the refrigerator. They can also be stored in the freezer since the cold temperature will not greatly affect their texture or flavor.

Sunflower seeds are not commonly known to be an allergen food so it is a great sub for nuts. Even though sunflower seeds are high in oils there are only 46 grams of fat in this complete recipe!  I broke it down to .7 grams of fat per tbsp.  You can’t complain about that.  This will all depend on the amount of water that you add.

This afternoon I made my husband a large salad with this dressing and he just loved it.  This dressing compliments the crouton recipe that I have called,  Italian Seasoned Croutons.   Each bite is packed full of flavor. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


2 cups sunflower seeds, soaked

1 1/2 – 2 cups water

1/4 – 1/2 cup Bragg’s raw apple cider vinegar

1 Tbsp dried dill (2 Tbsp if fresh)

1 Tbsp (heaping) Italian Seasoning

1 Tbsp honey or maple syrup

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


After soaking the sunflower seeds, drain and discard the soak water.

In the high-speed blender, combine seeds, water, vinegar, seasoning, sweetener, and salt. Blend until creamy.

You can add less water if you want to create a creamy dressing or even use it as a dip or spread.




Store in the fridge for 5-7 days.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



