Ginger Miso Salad Dressing
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/ginger-miso-salad-dressing/



	Ginger Miso Salad Dressing

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Your not the only one who needs proper attention as to how you are dressed for a dinner party!!  Your salad deserves the same amount of respect,  it too wants to dress for success! :)  Have I lost you?  I guess what I am trying to say here is that it is important to use the right lettuce leaves with the right dressing, not just flavor wise but texture wise.

For example, you don’t want to pair up a heavy, thick dressing with tender baby lettuce leaves.  They won’t be able to stand up to the weight of the dressing.  Romaine lettuce is nice and hearty.  Its crunchy texture can stand up to any dressing.  Especially a thick one.

Butter lettuce is a crisp-head lettuce, meaning its leaves form a compact head as it grows – although its head is much less compact than iceberg lettuce.  Butter lettuce has a tender texture and large, cupped leaves that work beautifully in salads, especially with delicate dressings.

So when it comes to making this dressing you can control how thick or thin you wish for it to be so it can pair up nicely with the lettuce that you have on hand.

The secret to a perfectly tossed salad is simple: use your hands. Wash them first (and after!), of course, but no tongs or salad tools can possibly replicate the delicacy and feel of human hands. Once you get the hang of it, you’ll never go back to brutalizing your lovely salads with bruising, damaging spoons or forks:



Use 2 to 4 tablespoons of dressing for every 4 cups of clean, dry greens, in a large bowl that seems much too big.  It is so much easier to toss a salad gently in an over-sized bowl.

Hold your fingers as far apart from each other as possible and run them down the sides of the bowl to the bottom, lift up, bringing the greens that were touching the dressing on the bottom of the bowl to the top.

Repeat until salad is evenly coated.


Simplicity at its best.


Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


1 cup water

1/4 cup raw tahini

2-3 Tbsp maple syrup

2 Tbsp white unpasteurized miso

1 Tbsp chia seeds, ground to a powder

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

2 tsp fresh lime juice

1 tsp chopped garlic

1/2 tsp ground ginger

1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil


Preparation:


In the blender, combine the water, tahini, sweetener, miso, chia powder, vinegar, lime juice, garlic, and ginger. Blend until creamy.

For the miso, I use organic chickpea based miso.




With the blender running, drizzle in the oil nice and slow to emulsify the dressing.

Place in the fridge for 1+ hours for the flavors to develop and meld together.

Store in fridge for up to 5 days.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



