Sriracha Cashew Cream Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/sriracha-cashew-cream-sauce/



	Sriracha Cashew Cream Sauce

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Sriracha is not a raw product but it is one ingredient that lives in our fridge.  Bob is known to add a drop or two of this chili sauce on just about anything.

Whenever I bring Bob his food, I always have the Sriracha bottle tucked under my arm.  He will take the dish from me and look at me with “that” look. You know… the look that says, “Did you happen to bring the Sriracha? look.

It is made from red chili peppers, garlic, vinegar, salt, and sugar.  The sauce is hot and tangy with just a hint of sweetness, which sets it apart from your garden variety hot sauces.

If you want to make a raw version of sriracha sauce you can check this site out.  I haven’t attempted it myself… but one day I will.

This sauce is quite versatile… great for dipping crackers in, raw veggies, thin a little bit for a salad dressing, use as a coating for kale chips (ooh, I am so doing this!), toss with some quinoa and veggies, and ooh so much more.    Another great staple to keep in the fridge.

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 3/4 cup




1/2 cup + 2 Tbsp water

1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 large garlic clove

1/4 cup nutritional yeast

1 Tbsp Sriracha chili sauce

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt



Preparation:



Soaking the cashews is vital!  This will soften them and help in blending into a smooth, creamy sauce.  After soaking, drain, discard the soak water and rinse.

In a high-powered blender combine the water, cashews, garlic, nutritional yeast, Sriracha sauce, lemon juice, and a dash of sea salt.  Blend until creamy.  Depending on the blender, this can take 1-5 minutes.

Store in an airtight container for 5-7 days.



 
 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



