Tartar Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/tartar-sauce/



	Tartar Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Throughout this recipe, I am going to reinforce the art of “taste testing”.  Quite a while ago I wrote a post called “The Value of Tasting as You Go!”  It is worth the read.  When it comes to adding spices that are pungent or when adding sweeteners to recipes, we all have a different tolerance level.

There are approximately 10,000 taste buds on a human tongue when you are born.  As we age, some of the taste buds start to die, leaving us with as little as 5,000. That is a huge difference!  That’s why some foods may taste stronger to you when you are younger than they do as an adult.

So let’s just pretend (wink) that I am 41 years old and you are 20 years old…  spices and sweeteners can taste stronger to you than they do to me. What I am really just trying to say here is to taste test as you go.

Start with lesser amounts and increase them till your palate has reached satisfaction!  :)  Besides the whole taste bud lesson, we all have different likes.  I for one love horseradish… I go for the “burn”!  Nose burn that is. haha

But if you are sensitive to it, back off a bit.  I want you to enjoy the ride.  One thing to keep in mind is that the strength of flavors can change by the following day.  Raw recipes have a way of doing that because it gives the ingredients time to meld together.

Even though you may feel like you are burning nose cells when you eat horseradish, also know that it is doing your body good!  It has been found to have been anti-inflammatory, diuretic (increase urine output), and nerve soothing effects.  It also is known to stimulate salivary, gastric, and intestinal glands to secrete digestive enzymes, thereby facilitating digestion.

This recipe makes a large quantity, I must have had big eyes when creating it.  You can downsize the recipe if you wish but it is a great staple to have in the fridge too.  Use it for Raw Vegan Fish Sticks, dip your veggies in it, spread it on your sandwich or wrap, swipe a layer on your favorite cracker.  And if you just can’t eat it all, coat some kale with it and make tarter flavored kale chips.  Nothing goes to waste in our kitchens!  :)

Ingredients:

yields 1 3/4 cup


1 cup cashews, soaked

1/2 cup water

1 Tbsp apple cider vinegar

2 tsp horseradish powder

1 Tbsp pickle juice

1/2 tsp garlic powder

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup minced sweet pickle

2 Tbsp grated horseradish

4  green onions, whites only, minced


Preparation:


Soak the cashews in 2 cups of water for at least 2 hours.  They will swell and soften.   After soaking, drain and rinse them.  Put them in the blender.

I don’t recommend substituting out the cashews.  They offer a neutral base that gives a very creamy mouth-feel.




Add the water, vinegar, horseradish powder, pickle juice, garlic powder, and salt.  Blend until smooth.  Depending on your blender this can take 1-5 minutes.  Transfer into a bowl.

Update: if you don’t have freshly grated horseradish and horseradish powder, you can use 3 tsp of wasabi powder instead.




Taste test the horseradish level before you proceed.

Add the minced pickled, minced horseradish (if desired) and onions.  Stir together.

Store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 days.


Raw Vegan “Fish” Tacos



Raw Vegan “Fish Sticks”



Raw Vegan “Fish” Sandwiches 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



