Seriously, O.M.G. Dill and Onion Dip (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/seriously-o-m-g-dill-and-onion-dip/



	Seriously, O.M.G. Dill and Onion Dip

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This dip is the same sauce that I use to make the Seriously, O.M.G. Dill and Onion Kale Chips. Sometimes I forget just how delicious and flavorful those sauces are and they don’t have to be just for making kale chips!

Kitchen Time Savers

Everyone wants to learn about raw food staples, how to maximize the usefulness the foods we make and to minimize prep time.

Preparing weekly meals isn’t always easy — there’s planning, shopping, and cooking, let’s not forget the mounds of dishes!  But here’s the thing… it doesn’t have to take a lot of your time each day. You can streamline your routine so you spend less time in the kitchen, and more time with your family (or looking at NouveauRaw ;)

“Cook” once and eat twice.

Well, it is recipes like this that can really help! Let’s say that Saturday is the day that you spend time in the kitchen, working on the next weeks’ menu.  Kale chips are always a wonderful snack so make up a small batch.

Withhold up to a cup of the sauce so you can use it as a dip for raw crackers or cut up veggies.  Or even use it as a spread on a sandwich!  Want to take it a step further?  Add a little extra water and thin it down to a salad dressing!

It kind of makes you look at things a little differently now doesn’t it?

Ingredients:

yields 3 cups sauce


2 cups cashews, soaked 2 hours

1 1/2 cups water

2 1/2 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp dried onion flakes

1 tsp ground onion powder

1/2 cup packed fresh dill, minced

2 tsp black pepper

1/2 – 1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the water.

In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, water, vinegar, lemon juice, and spices. Blend until the sauce is creamy smooth.  Feel free to add more water to reach the consistency that you want.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Create a vortex in the blender, this will help ensure that the dip is getting fully blended into a creamy texture.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape down the sides.

This process can take 1-3 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm, stop the machine and let it cool, then proceed once cooled.




Enjoy right away or store for a day.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



