Fruit Salsa (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/fruit-salsa/



	Fruit Salsa

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I love the idea of making a fruit salsa, and there is no doubt it can be enjoyed in so many different ways.  Add a dollop on top of your favorite cracker, place a scoop or two over your cereal or yogurt, sprinkle over a salad, ladle over some ice cream, or eat by the spoonfuls (no judging here).  It’s just pure goodness looking all beautiful and innocent.

Another true beauty of fruit salsas is that you can use just about any fruit you like.  I really enjoyed the sweetness from the strawberries and kiwi, as well as the tartness from the green apple.  But feel free to mix things up either what you are hungry for or with any fruits that you happen to have on hand.  No need to make a special trip to the store.

Make sure that you start off with the best-tasting fruit though, because that can make or break the recipes.  Don’t use tasteless strawberries, unripe, hard kiwi, or mealy apples.  No amount of slicing, dicing or adding other ingredients is going to change their deficiencies.  There is also another step to take when making fruit salsa, and that is to dice everything small, and even.  This makes for a great mouth-feel and presentation.

In 2015 I took a six-month on-line, vegan, cooking, culinary course through Rouxbe. What a wonderfully, intense six months that was. :)  During my studies, I found a really neat cutting board called Fred and Friends THE OBSESSIVE CHEF Bamboo Cutting Board.  

It has a multitude of guidelines, different grid sizes and angles ensure your cuts are precise, and those lines are burnished in rather than printed, so they won’t wear off. It features guides for medium dice, small dice, brunoise, fine brunoise, batonnet, allumette, julienne, and fine julienne.  So if you are looking to master your skills in those knife skill techniques, you just might enjoy this cutting board.   It is made of environmentally sustainable bamboo and is 9 x  12″.

Ingredients:

yields 3 packed cups 

1 organic granny smith apple

2 tsp fresh lemon juice

1 lb organic strawberries

2 kiwis

1 Tbsp maple syrup or agave

2 tsp hemp seeds

Pinch Himalayan pink salt

Minced thyme or rosemary (optional)

Hemp seed for sprinkling on top


Preparation:


Dice the apple, strawberries, and kiwis, into small pieces and tossing them with the lemon juice in a medium-sized bowl.

Gently toss with maple syrup.

Allow it to sit at room temperature at least 15 minutes or longer before serving.

Sprinkle hemp seeds on top just before serving.

Tastes better the next day as the ingredients meld together.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



