Sweet Pea Guacamole (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/sweet-pea-guacamole/



	Sweet Pea Guacamole

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I am not a guacamole purist.  So combining not-so-traditional ingredients doesn’t faze me in the least.  There isn’t anything wrong with traditions, but I think it is good to play around with your ingredients and bring forth new creations

Even though adding fresh English peas to what is an otherwise fairly traditional guacamole might be viewed as a pretty radical move, I found it humbling and it made me smile. Peas are quiet, never draw attention to themselves and are not often featured as a special attraction.

Feeling a bit skeptical but also intrigued?

The peas add a slight sweetness and a chunky texture, and they intensify the color of the avocado. With the addition of the peas, the guacamole holds its color in the fridge for a few days without turning brown around the edges.

Fresh peas are by far the best to use, but that could limit your enjoyment of this dip. If you wish to have the freedom to make this dish year round, you can use frozen peas that have been thawed.  Be sure to drain the liquid from the thawing if there is any.

Guacamole for Bone Health

In case you weren’t aware, just one-half of an avocado provides approximately 25% of the daily recommended intake for vitamin K, and 100 g of fresh peas contain about 21% of daily requirement of vitamin K.  So what’s the big deal with vitamin K? Bone health.  It is essential for bone health. Adequate intake of vitamin K can support your bones by increasing calcium absorption and reduce urinary excretion of calcium.

But I must also include that there is a warning, vitamin K can have interactions with a few medications. Also, certain medications can have an adverse effect on vitamin K levels. Some examples are; Warfarin (Coumadin®) and similar anticoagulants,  antibiotics,  bile acid sequestrants, and Orlistat.  Individuals taking these and other medications should discuss their vitamin K status with their health care providers. (source)

Well, it’s time, time to dirty a few dishes and enjoy this wonderful snack. You can use it as a dip or as a spread on a sandwich. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 cups


1 medium avocado, ripe, peeled and pitted

2 Tbsp lime juice

1 large cloves garlic

1 tsp ground cumin

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt



1 cup sweet English peas

1/4 cup finely chopped red onions

1 cup chopped tomatoes

2 Tbsp chopped cilantro


Preparation:


Place the avocado, lime juice, garlic, cumin and salt in a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until creamy.

You will want to use the small bowl attachment if you have one. Alternatively, this can be done by hand.




Add the peas, onions, and cilantro.  Pulse about five times.  Just enough to blend everything together, leaving a chunky rustic look.

If mixing by hand, use a fork to mash it up some.




Store leftovers in the fridge for up to 2 days.


 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



