Country Ranch Dressing - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/dressings-dips/discovered-valley-ranch-dressing/



	Discovered Valley Ranch Dressing

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Finally, a creamy and tangy ranch dressing that’s entirely dairy-free, vegan, and raw! Use on salad, as a dip, make ranch kale chips,  in sandwiches, or even on pizza.

Ever wonder what is hiding in your Hidden Valley Ranch Dressing?  Go ahead, turn the bottle around and read the ingredients.  Now, gently set it down, back away slowly, turn around and run for your pantry!  Grab the ingredients below and make your own healthy, non-chemical laden dressing!

Don’t feel bad, I too use to love ranch dressing. I always had a bottle of it in my fridge. It’s one of those versatile dressings that tastes amazing on just about every food that it comes in contact with.

This ranch dressing is gluten-free, dairy free, soy free, refined sugar-free and cooked free.  I bet you are thinking to yourself, “If it is all that, could it possibly taste good?”  The answer is YES!

Those who are vegan, vegetarian, semi-vegetarianism, flexitarian, raw foodists, pollotarians, pescetarians, pollo-pescatarians, macrobiotic-tarian, omnivores, or even those who are SADatarians (Standard American Diet- atarians) can enjoy this dressing! lol I am sure I missed a few categories but all in all I believe this recipe can be enjoyed by everyone.  If you have a nut allergy (a non-nutarian? haha), you can substitute the cashews with sunflower seeds or hemp seeds.  It may alter the flavor a tad but I know you will still love it.

You can’t see it in the picture but in the midst of the Discovery Ranch Dressing sits a carrot.  Yep, this dressing was so darn good that I was double dipping my carrot into it while I was prepping it for its photo shoot. Oy.  I know, I know,  one shouldn’t double dip but I was alone, no one to scold me, and I just lost control!  Well, I actually lost my carrot!

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups



1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup fresh lemon juice

1/4 cup raw apple cider vinegar

2 Medjool dates soaked in 1/2 cup of water

1/2 cup date soak water (use the soak water from above)

1-2 large cloves garlic or 1 tsp garlic powder

2 Tbsp red onion, minced

3 tsp onion powder

1 tsp dried dill or 1 Tbsp fresh dill

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp dried basil or 1 Tbsp fresh basil

Black pepper to taste

1 cup water


Preparation:


Place the dates in the water and start the soaking process while you prepare the rest of the recipe.

If the dates are really dry and hard, you may want to soak them for a 1 hour or longer.  You can even start them soaking the same time you soak the cashews.

The soak time will vary depending on the date.  You want the dates soft when you add them to the blender.




After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse the soak water.

If you wish to make this nut-free, sunflower seeds are a great alternative.




In a high-powered blender add the cashews, lemon juice, vinegar, dates, soak water of dates, garlic, onion, dill, and salt. Puree until smooth and creamy.

This can take 1-3 minutes, depending on the machine you use.

If using fresh herbs add those last.




The 1 cup of water is to be added last or omitted, depending on what you are making with this recipe.

If using as a dip, omit the cup of water and place the dressing/dip in an airtight container and chill for about 2 hours to thicken.

If using as a dressing add up to 1 cup of water, you can decide on the consistency that you want.




This should be good for 5-7 days.


Nutritional Value: 3 cups = 48 Tbsp = Info calculated for 1 Tbsp


Calories: 30

Fat: 2.1 gm

Protein: 1 gm

Carbs: 2.5 gm





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



