Dried Corn Nibblers
https://nouveauraw.com/dried-fruits-and-vegetables/dehydrated-corn/



	Dehydrated Corn

													    
    


				

~ raw, dehydrated ~

This isn’t a recipe but more of a technique or an idea generator.  Let me begin by stressing that you use ORGANIC corn!  Buying 100% Organic, Certified Organic, or  USDA Organic-labeled products are usually the easiest way to avoid genetically modified ingredients.

The United States and Canadian governments do NOT allow companies to label products “100% / Certified Organic” if they contain genetically modified foods.  If you are concerned about GMO corn, please check out the Non GMO Project for further details.

I soaked my corn in salt water.  This started out as an experiment when I was creating a corn chip recipe.  One common response I get about raw corn chips/wraps is that they often have a bitter aftertaste.

Unfortunately,  Google after Google searching, I came up empty-handed why this might occur.  So, I just wanted to see if a difference could be made by soaking the corn in salt overnight.  I made a large batch of this dried corn as shown below and used it in my Nacho Chili “Cheese” Corn Chips and it was a WIN!  No complaints of that bitter aftertaste.

Was it do to the salt? The soaking? The combination?  Or the phase of the moon?  To be honest, I don’t know but I will say that Bob loved these dried corn kernels right off of the dehydrator tray.  The salt from soaking gave them that perfect umami snacking food taste.  Umami /uːˈmɑːmi/  ~ is translated as a “pleasant savory taste”.  The human tongue has receptors for L-glutamate, which is the source of umami flavor. For that reason, scientists consider umami to be distinct from saltiness.

Although dried sweet corn makes a tasty snack on its own, it can also be used in recipes that call for regular corn. Rehydrate the corn by soaking it in water for a few minutes, then drain the excess water before using the corn as you would use canned corn. Dried corn can be made into cornmeal at home by using a food grinder or a food processor.  Cornmeal made from dehydrated sweet corn may be sweeter than cornmeal you are used to.  So take this into consideration when using it in recipes.  Or just sprinkle over your salad for added texture.

One last thing before I let you go and I promise not to get graphic about it here… but have you ever noticed that corn passes right through your digestive tract, exiting your body in the same form as it entered?  Not to get too personal here, I have.  So guess what, I Googled it. lol  What?  You can ask Google questions that you would be too embarrassed to ask your doctor, pastor, neighbor, mother or best friend. :)  So, if you want to read about it.. please click here. Be aware, he uses the  “P” word. haha

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


8 cups organic corn, fresh or frozen

2 Tbsp Himalayan pink salt


 Preparation:


Place the corn and salt in a large bowl and add enough water to cover the corn.  Stir and cover.

Allow the corn to sit overnight in the fridge.

When ready to make, drain the water from the corn through a strainer.  Do not rinse.

Spread evenly on the dehydrator trays in single, even layers.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 4-6 hours or until dry.

Package the corn as soon as possible after cooling.  Store it in airtight containers or sealable plastic bags and keep it in the cupboard, pantry, refrigerator or freezer for future use. Dried corn has a shelf life of about 1 year.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F).  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



