Smokin' Tomato Chips
https://nouveauraw.com/dried-fruits-and-vegetables/smokin-tomato-chips/



	Smokin’ Tomato Chips

													    
    


				Smokin’ Tomato Chips


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This creation started out as a challenge.  A wonderful gal from Canada contacted me and asked if I could recreate a tomato chip like the one they are selling back in her local town.  We shared, through email, some great conversations back and forth about how to make this treat.  I told her I would give it a shot.

So late one night, I started tinkering around with a sauce.  Every once in a while I dipped a finger in to taste test and then it hit me… how can I possibly recreate something that I have never tasted? She has tried several times on her end, and she has the store-bought product to compare it to.  But I didn’t.  So, I decided that maybe it wasn’t productive for me to take on this challenge, at least until I can get my hands on the original.

So, once I let that go, I started playing around with more spices and flavors, and this is the end result.   After dehydrating and cooling to room temperature, they are crispy but do have a slight bend in them.  You can easily bite into the chip, and it breaks right off in your mouth.  Flavor-wise, the tomato really shines through, right along with the cheesy, smoky, and spicy flavors.  Delicious!

To get really thin tomato slices, I used my mandolin.  That way, I could get them as thin as possible without disturbing the membrane of the tomato too much.  Also, when you have even and consistent slices, they will dehydrate at the same rate.  You will want to select ripe but firm tomatoes for this recipe.  Mushy ones just won’t work.

To make this nut-free, you can use sunflower or hemp seeds in place of the cashews.  I hope you enjoy this recipe and if you try making it, please let me know how it goes. :

Ingredients:

Sauce: yields 2 1/2 cups


1/2 cup cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup water

2 cups (1 large) red bell pepper, rough chopped

2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1 tsp dried oregano

1 tsp smoked paprika

1/2 tsp red pepper flakes

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Tomato chips:


3 large tomatoes


Preparation:

Tomato chips:


Wash and dry the tomatoes.

Spread two paper towels out on the countertop.

With a mandolin, I made 1.5 mm slices.  Lay the slices on the paper towel in a single layer.  As the towels fill up, lay another paper towel on top and continue.  I did this to absorb the liquid from the tomatoes. Otherwise, the tomato juice would make the sauce too runny.  I had a stack of 3 layers.  You could use Roman tomatoes which have less liquid in them.


Sauce:


After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soak water.  Place in a high-speed blender.

Soaking the cashews will help soften them so they blend real creamy and the soaking process helps to reduce phytic acid. Read more about it (here).




Add the water, bell pepper, lemon juice, nutritional yeast, oregano, paprika, pepper flakes, and salt.   Blend to a smooth and creamy sauce.  Depending on the machine this can take 1-3 minutes.  Pour into a medium-sized bowl.


Assembly:


Prepare the dehydrator trays by lining them with the teflex sheets.  If you don’t have those, you can use parchment paper.  Don’t use wax paper; food tends to stick to it.

Dredge each tomato slice through the sauce.  Allow any excess to drip off before laying it on the teflex sheet.  Lay them out in a single layer.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for 6-8 hours, until dry enough to peel off the teflex.

Place the chips on the mesh sheet and continue to dry for another 6-8 hours or until crisp.

These dry times are a basic estimate.  It will vary on the climate you live in, the machine model that your own, and how full the dehydrator is.

Store on the counter till gone. :)


Culinary Explanations:


When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



