Make Ahead Raw Recipe Ideas
https://nouveauraw.com/free-recipes/techniques-free/monthly-raw-food-staples-make-ahead-recipe-ideas/



	Monthly Raw Food Staples – make ahead recipe ideas

													    
    


				Monthly Raw Food Staples – make ahead recipe ideas
This post could get rather long…. the possibilities are endless!  And if not careful, I would end up copying all my site recipes into this post.  These are just some ideas that might help you get prepared for the busy weeks ahead.  So here are some quick examples from different categories in my the recipes section.  I encourage you to look through and see what sounds useful to you.  You have now been empowered!




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			

		

 

Raw Artisan Breads are breads that are hand-crafted rather than mass-produced. They are prepared in small batches giving special attention to using raw, organic ingredients that are “cooked” in a dehydrator rather than an oven. And since enzymes are delicate, this process ensures that we receive the full benefits of the living enzymes for digestion and optimal health.

Most bread recipes can be converted into wrap, crouton, and cracker recipes. I wrote up a detailed post called Bread Making 101 to help teach you about the ingredients used and the different ways that you can use them. Loaves of raw breads are perfect for daily, weekly, and monthly staples because they will keep in the fridge for up to a week, or you can wrap each slice individually and keep it in the freezer for up to 3 months.

Click on the following links to find more bread, wrap, crouton recipes.

Equipment needed: food processor, dehydrator, or oven.


Use 1 – Shape them into bread loaves for sandwiches.

Use 2 – Shape part of the same dough into buns to go with salads.

Use 3 – Use some of the same dough to waffles for breakfast on the go.

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

In this section, you will learn how to make some excellent cracker recipes. Most of us are used to growing up with boxes of crackers in the pantry; we can still make that happen… even in the raw, whole food world! When you are trying to stick to a healthier diet, it is in your best interest to fill your snack drawers with some healthy and tasty snacks. If you don’t, it is so much easier to grab that bag of fat-laden, chemical-induced crackers that won’t feed your body or soul.

They can sweet or savory, crunchy or chewy, spicy or not, the sky is the limit… by creating a variety you can meet the demands of your inner cravings. They have a very long shelf life if dehydrated correctly. They can keep for up to a month in the pantry (if sealed well) and for months in the freezer. I store all of my crackers in the freezer. When I have a snack attack, I reach in, grab one, and devour it (slowly hehe).

Equipment needed: recipe depending, mixing bowl, food processor, dehydrator, or oven.


Use 1 – Use for in-between meal snacking!

Use 2 – Use to crumble over salads to add a crunchy texture.

Use 3 – Use for an appetizer before dinner or as a late-night snack.  Dip in raw cheese sauces, nut cheeses, salsa, and guacamole!

Use 4 – Use cracker batters to make pizza crusts! (dehydrate them in larger circles)

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.

For more cracker recipes ideas, click (here)





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

Kale, a vegetable that is in the same family as the cabbage. It is full of nutrients, including vitamins A, C, K, and calcium. Kale is also rich in antioxidants and is an excellent source of fiber. But no longer do we have to depend on kale chips to fight off those crunchy, salty cravings. I have developed a new and exciting technique on how to make cheese chips and many other types. So, the next time you’re looking for something to snack on that won’t leave you feeling guilty when you eat the whole bowl, give these a try.

These will keep up to a month when stored properly, and should they soften a tad, pop them back in the dehydrator to crisp them up.

Equipment: blender, dehydrator, and oven


Use 1 – Use for snacking!

Use 2 – Use for a side dish with a meal!

Use 3 – Use for breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacking, all day eating!  Ok, kidding, sort of, but you can eat them anytime.

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.

For kale recipes, click (here), for cheese chips click (here), and for other savory chips click (here) for more ideas.





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

They say that breakfast is the most important meal of the day, whether that is true or not, it ought to be downright tasty, and while we are at it, nutritious. I can eat any food for breakfast, and I am not tied down to traditional breakfast foods. But I will use this section to post some healthy, tasty, and easy recipes so you can start your day off with a full and satisfied belly. For more breakfast ideas, be sure to check out the “granola” recipe category too!

Cereal and granola recipes can have a dual (if not more) purpose. Either one can be enjoyed as a cereal, in a bowl with fresh almond milk. They can also be enjoyed as a snack. Just like crackers, I tend to keep all my raw cereal and granola recipes in the freezer. I like to build up a variety, so I have options. They will keep 2-4 weeks in the pantry or 1-3 months in the freezer.

Equipment: food processor, dehydrator, or oven


Use 1 – Use for in-between snacking.

Use 2 – Use for breakfast, pouring your favorite nut milk over the top for a healthy cereal.

Use 3 – Use as a topping for yogurt and ice cream.

Use 4 – Use in salads for texture and a punch of flavor.

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.

For cereal recipes, click (here), and for granola recipes click (here).





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

I decided to create this section because sometimes it is easy to assume that everyone knows the tricks of the trade in the raw world.  In raw recipes, you will see a lot of talk about dehydrating, sprouting, soaking nuts, using date paste, Irish moss paste, adding nut milk to your recipe… What are all these things, and how in the world do you use and/or make them? Here are a few samples.

Chia Gel – Full of nutrients and magical qualities!

This will keep in your fridge for approx. Three weeks

Equipment: mason jar


Use 1 – Use in salad dressing as a thickener.

Use 2 – Use in smoothies to increase nutrients and as a natural thickener.

Use 3 – Use in cracker recipes to help hold everything together.

Use 4 – Use in dessert recipes to add texture.


Irish Moss Gel (paste) – Full of nutrients and is a “wonder” ingredient in recipes, which will keep for approx — 3 weeks in the fridge.

Equipment: blender

Prep work – requires soaking and rinsing for several days.


Use 1 – Use as a thickener for salad dressings

Use 2 – Use as an emulsifier for desserts, puddings.

Use 3 – Use in smoothies.  It is so healthy for you!


Almond Pulp – a by-product of making fresh almond milk.

Almond pulp will keep for 3-5 days in the fridge but months in the freezer.

Equipment: blender, dehydrator, or oven


Use 1 – Use to create raw pieces of bread.

Use 2 – Use to create raw crackers and croutons.

Use 3 – Dehydrate the pulp to create almond flour.


 




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

What are cookies? To me, they are memory makers. You could stop and ask anyone what their favorite cookie is, and they will have an answer for you on the spot, along with a childhood memory that is attached to it. So don’t go asking unless you have an ear to lend to them. :)

I have several favorite childhood cookies that I favor, but to be honest, my fondest memories tied to them is the fact that I ate more raw dough than cooked! Unhealthy raw dough that is. Today, making raw cookies, well, that hasn’t changed except for the fact that this dough is so much healthier for me. So come on in and recreate your childhood memories.

They will keep for weeks in the pantry or fridge, and months if appropriately stored in the freezer.

Equipment needed: food processor, dehydrator, or oven

Prep work – dehydration


Use 1 – Cookie batters can be shaped into bars.

Use 2 – Cookie batters can be made into granola and cereals.

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



