Coconut Orange Whipped Cream Frosting
https://nouveauraw.com/frosting/coconut-orange-whipped-cream-frosting/



	Coconut Orange Whipped Cream Frosting

													    
    


				

Coconut Orange Whipped Cream Frosting


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I am going to dive right into this frosting and discuss the ingredients and why I used them. To some of you, this is old news, but since my heart is to teach and share (what I know), I find it necessary to talk about what makes a raw recipe possible and incredible. :)

Where I get my Young Thai Coconut from…

So let’s start with young Thai coconut flesh/meat.   The recipe calls for one cup of coconut flesh which can usually take 1-2 coconuts.

If you are new to using this ingredient, please click (here).  I understand that not everyone can find these at their local grocery so if you need a substitute, increase the cashews to two cups instead of one. It won’t be quite the same but will do in a pinch. I have been ordering my young Thai coconut flesh from Exotic Superfoods, and it is outstanding!

Creamy Cashews!

Speaking of cashews, the key to a creamy frosting is soaked cashews.  They offer a slight sweetness and give any frosting an amazing smooth-mouth-feel.    If you happen to find yourself on the other side of the table, where you have plenty of young Thai coconut flesh but no cashews, feel free to double the amount of coconut. Ahhh, the beauty of raw.

Orange juice adds a wonderfully bright flavor to this frosting, but keep in mind that each orange differs in sweetness and taste. After squeezing the orange juice, take a little sip.  If the orange flavor is too faint, you can add up to a 1/4 tsp of orange flavoring to the recipe.  As far as sweetness goes, we will leave that up to the raw agave.

How to Sweeten

Raw agave adds a nice balance of sweetness to the frosting as a whole.  You can use raw honey or maple syrup in its place but be aware that those other sweeteners will affect the overall flavor of the recipe so once again, taste test as you go.

We then add vanilla to the recipe because it adds an incredible quality, one of depth and richness.    Often a person doesn’t notice it in a recipe when used in small amounts, but on the other hand, it will be missed if skipped.

Moving on down the ingredient list we bump into the orange extract. I wanted the frosting to have a sweet fresh orange flavor, so I added the orange extract to enhance the natural flavor of the orange.  Again, this will be optional depending on your oranges.

Now comes the coconut oil.  I find this ingredient vital to raw frosting recipes.  It adds a smooth, healthy fat to the recipe that gives structure since it firms up at 76 degrees (F).  Since it is well combined with other ingredients, it won’t cause the frosting to become solid but once the frosting is chilled, it will get nice and thick.

Why I use Sunflower Lecithin.

Lastly, sunflower lecithin.  This ingredient is used as both an emulsifier and thickener, and it ranks right up there with coconut oil.  If you don’t have any on hand, I created links below where you can place an order.  You can use soy-based lecithin in its place just be sure to get non-GMO.    Whether you use soy-based, sunflower-based, powdered, or liquid form… you can use the same measurement.

Each and every one of these ingredients is wonderful all on their own but together… they create a luxurious frosting that is bright, light, creamy, and slightly sweet.   I created this frosting for my Raw Blood Orange Pecan Date Cake, but it can be enjoyed in so many ways.  Many blessings! amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 2 3/4 cup


1 cup Young Thai coconut flesh

1 cup cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/3 cup fresh orange juice

1/4 cup raw coconut nectar

3 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp orange extract, if needed

1/2 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 1/2 Tbsp sunflower lecithin powder or liquid


Preparation:


In a high-powered blender combine the coconut flesh, cashews, orange juice, agave, and vanilla.  Blend until creamy and smooth.

Depending on the machine, this can take 1-3 minutes.

Stop and test the batter by rubbing some between your fingers.  Feel grit?  Keep blending.




Taste test the frosting and see how strong the orange flavor is.  Oranges vary from fruit to fruit.

If the flavor isn’t very strong, add a little orange extract to brighten the taste.




While the blender is running with a vortex in motion, drizzle in the coconut oil, then add the lecithin.  Stop blending once everything is well incorporated.

Pour into a container with a lid and place in the fridge to firm up.  This can take 4+ hours.  Or you can enjoy it right away; it will just be a bit runny.

It should keep for 3-5 days in the fridge.


 

 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



