Delicate Vanilla Frosting (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/frosting/delicate-vanilla-frosting/



	Delicate Vanilla Frosting

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Loaded with nutrient-rich cashews, this isn’t your average sweet topping. They are an excellent source of manganese, magnesium, phosphorus, copper, and vitamin K, and happens to be bursting with antiviral, antibacterial, and anti-fungal properties, thanks to the coconut oil.

This proves to me that we literally can have
our frosting and eat it too!

Delicate Vanilla Frosting is a beautiful frosting with just the right balance for any sweet dessert.  You can easily adjust this recipe to your own taste by adding flavored extracts.   This frosting will soften at room temperature so be sure to keep your frosted dessert in the fridge until ready to serve.   It should store well in the fridge for about a week in an airtight sealed container.



Why I add sunflower lecithin.

First of all, I want the health benefits. Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support healthy function of the brain, nervous system, and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints; helps break up cholesterol in the body.

Secondly, it is a natural emulsifier that binds the fats from nuts with water creating a creamy consistency. It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.  I prefer the powdered sunflower lecithin since it seems to have the least amount of flavor.






Serve over quick loaves of bread, cakes, pastries, and more. Keep the frosted treats chilled, if not serving immediately. If you want to create exciting new flavors, add a drop or two of culinary flavored essential oils. You could also flavor it with different extracts such as almond.
Ingredients:


1 cup raw cashews, soaked

1 1/8 cups young Thai coconut milk, raw or canned

1/2 cup raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup coconut oil, melted

1 Tbsp sunflower lecithin, powdered


Preparation:


Drain and discard the soak water from the cashews.

In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, coconut milk, sweetener, lemon juice, vanilla, and salt.  Blend until creamy.

Due to the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm, stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Tip: If the frosting doesn’t taste rich and flavorful, add another small pinch of salt and blend a little longer.

Pour into airtight containers and place in the freezer until it starts to firm up.  Depending on how you are using this frosting, you can remove it from the freezer and use it at different stages.

One of the key steps in creating frosting is to place it in the freezer after blending all the ingredients together. Check in on it periodically testing the consistency.  If you forget about it, and it gets too hard, just let it sit on the counter at room temp till it softens enough to spread.





Additional Cake Tips:


How to frost a cake.  Click here.

How to slice a cake.  Click here.

How much frosting is needed for a cake? Click here.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



