Milk Chocolate Cake Frosting (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/frosting/milk-chocolate-cake-frosting/



	Milk Chocolate Cake Frosting

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Today, I present to you a frosting that is perfect for cake decorating.  There are many different types of frostings out there that are job-specific.  They are used to decorate a variety of desserts, they add another layer of flavor and texture, as well as enabling you to decorate your creation so that it is a treat for the eyes as well as the palate.

Roles of the Ingredients

Soaked cashews ~  soaking the cashews is key (!) and this step should never be skipped.  Soaking causes the cashews to swell, giving a bit more volume for the money and it softens them which is vital when creating a creamy texture.

Coconut milk ~ whether you use fresh Young Thai Coconuts or canned full fat coconut milk, this ingredient helps give the frosting body, creaminess, and a hint of coconut.  It is a healthy fat that also acts as an emulsifier, bringing the recipe together.  As I said if you can’t find Young Thai coconuts you can use canned, but do your homework.  Aim for organic, BPA free, and free of other ingredients.

Maple syrup ~ I used maple syrup because it is more alkaline for the body than most other liquid sweeteners. You can use raw agave, coconut nectar, or any other liquid sweetener that you like to use.

Vanilla ~ The role of vanilla in sweet goods is like the role of salt on the savory side: it enhances all the other flavors in the recipe.  You can use vanilla bean (seeds only), powdered vanilla, or vanilla paste.

Raw cacao powder ~ well, really, what can say about this?! Without it, we wouldn’t have chocolate frosting! But if you are sensitive to cacao you can use carob.  I made this recipe to resemble and taste like milk chocolate.  If you want a more dark chocolate flavor, increase the cacao with one tablespoon at a time, till the right flavor is reached.

Salt ~  I use sea salt in just about all of my sweet desserts.  It elevates the sweetness level.  Coconut oil ~ It is a healthy fat but also gives the frosting the overall body. Once chilled above 76 degrees it firms up, making this frosting perfect for decorating.

Lecithin ~ Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support healthy function of the brain, nervous system, and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints; helps break up cholesterol in the body. It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.  I prefer the powdered, raw sunflower lecithin. Setting aside all the nutritional benefits, it is a natural emulsifier that binds the fats from nuts with water creating a creamy consistency.

After making this frosting, it will be very runny.  Place in the fridge to chill and firm up.  You can take it out at any time, depending on the consistency that you want for your dessert.  If left at room temperature for an extended period of time, it will start to soften to the point that it will lose its structure. Enjoy and have fun!

I shared a photo of a cake I decorated with this frosting. I wanted to show you the piping power it has. hehe

Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups


2 cups cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 3/4 cups raw coconut milk or canned

1/2 cup maple syrup

1 Tbsp vanilla

3 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1/8 tsp sea salt

1 cup coconut oil, melted

2 Tbsp lecithin powder


Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse them well.  Set aside.

In a high-speed blender combine in order; coconut milk, maple syrup, vanilla, salt, and cashews.

By placing the liquids in first, it helps the blades spin more easily.

Blend until creamy and don’t feel any grit in the frosting.

Depending on the blender, this may take anywhere from 1-5 minutes.




While the blender is running and a vortex is in motion, drizzle in the coconut oil.  Make sure that it gets well incorporated.

Now add the lecithin and process just until mixed in.

Place the frosting in an airtight container and place in the fridge for 2-4 hours to firm.

It may take longer for the frosting to set depending on the coolness of your fridge or how warm you got the batter when blending it.

To speed up the process place in the freezer until firm.




This will keep for 3-5 days.


Additional Cake Tips:


How to frost a cake.  Click here.

How to slice a cake.  Click here.

How much frosting is needed for a cake? Click here.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



