Lemon Buttercream Icing (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/frosting/lemon-coconut-cream-icing/



	Lemon Coconut Cream Icing

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This icing wears many “hats” when it comes to its full potential. For starters, it makes for a quick, easy, and tasty icing that is perfect for drizzling over raw pastries.  This would be divine over my Carrot Apricot Scones.

It would also be wonderful to pour over the top of a cake, allowing it to spill over the edges. Slide it into the freezer for about 10 minutes it sets right up due to the coconut butter.

Another great way that I have used this icing is as a Magic Shell. Do you remember that stuff from your childhood years? If you’re not familiar with it, it was a chocolate sauce that you would squirt out of a bottle onto ice cream. Due to the coldness of the ice cream, it would set up as a hard shell. This does the same thing. See the photos below.

I poured some over my Pineapple Mango Orange Ice Cream. Talk about a delicious pairing of flavors.

One last idea on how to use it to place it in a piping bag and use it to decorate any dessert with. There is a sweet spot in temperature as to when you can use it for this application. It can’t be too cold, or it will harden. It can’t be too warm, or it will be too liquidy. But it works. I have used it this way before.

The main thing that you need to know when mixing this together is to have all the ingredients at the same room temp. If you add anything too cold to coconut butter, it will seize up.

You can also change out the lemon oil and use any flavoring that you want. You can also use any sweetener that you want just make sure that it is light in color otherwise it will taint the color of the icing… which is fine if that is what you want. I hope you enjoy this simple recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 1 1/4 cup (depending on sweetener used)


1/2 cup coconut butter, softened

2 Tbsp cashew butter, softened

1/2 cup hot water

1-2 tsp lemon extract

1/2  tsp liquid NuNaturals stevia or 2-4 Tbsp liquid clear sweetener


Preparation:


Soften the coconut butter and cashew butter by placing them in a large bowl with hot water.  Make sure the lids are on tight, so water doesn’t seep in.  Once you can stir it freely, it is softened enough to use.

Place the coconut butter, cashew butter, hot water, lemon extract, and stevia in a small-bowled food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, and blend until smooth stopping to scrape down the sides.  I ran my food processor for 3 minutes.  (I timed it)

Instead of stevia try 2-3 Tbsp of your favorite liquid sweetener.  Keep in mind if the sweetener is amber-colored, it will affect the frosting color.

If you can’t eat cashews, replace them with more coconut butter.  The cashew butter gave the over-all flavor a delicate balance.

Instead of lemon extract ~ try using 2 Tbsp of fresh lemon juice… taste test.

Make sure that all the ingredients are warm to room temp. Coconut butter can seize up if mixed with other ingredients that are chilled.




If you don’t have a small bowl attachment for the food processor, you can mix it by hand, but it might not come out as smooth.

Decorate your sweet treat!

Store leftovers in an airtight container.  Once placed in the fridge, it will get very firm.  This should keep for 5-7 days.









 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



