Sugar Free Caramel Sauce
https://nouveauraw.com/frosting/sugar-free-caramel-sauce/



	Sugar Free Caramel Sauce

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, low-carb ~

I get a lot of request for recipes that are either no-sugar or low-sugar and since Bob and I are always looking for ways to keep our sugar intake down, it was a welcomed challenge.

There are so many recipes out there on how to make “caramel sauces” and having lots of options is wonderful. However, if you find that there are ingredients in a recipe that doesn’t mesh with your current dietary needs, don’t write it off, simply shelve it for another time. I don’t know about you, but my diet has and will go through many shifts.

The more we learn about different ingredients, the more we can progress in the health and culinary world! And most of all, we can find what works for our “well-oiled machines.”

Onward… by me defining this sauce as sugar-free, I am referring to the fact that I didn’t add any sugars to this recipe. I did use Markus Sweet, which is an anti-oxidant that fights free radicals. It passes right through the body without being absorbed and does not affect the gastrointestinal tract. It tastes like brown sugar with a hint of caramel.  With zero calories and zero glycemic, it won’t raise blood sugar or insulin.  Great for diabetics and it doesn’t feed Candida or yeast.

Let’s talks about this viscosity of this caramel sauce. It takes on many different textures based on its temperature. After blending the ingredients together, it will be liquid, and you will be questioning my culinary skills. Trust me on this. One thing that I really love about this recipe is that it can accommodate any need that I have for it.

In its liquid state, it is great to pour over raw scones, pastries, and ice cream. To firm it up to use as a thicker frosting/icing, place the container in the fridge or freezer, checking it often, so it doesn’t get to firm. If left in the fridge or freezer, it will turn solid. What is this solid state good for? EATIN! Oh, mercy… if you pour this caramel sauce into chocolate molds and freeze, it makes for a delicious candy! It will melt at warm temperatures so don’t toss a few in your pockets for later enjoyment.

If your sauce has hardened, no problem! If you own a dehydrator with an open cavity such as an Excalibur or Sedona, just slide it in there and warm it up to the texture that you want. You can also set it in a bowl of warm water to soften, just make sure that whatever you have the sauce stored in has a tight seal.  I am not sure if I have ever had so much fun with one recipe. I hope you give it a try and please comment below. I would love to hear your thoughts. Blessings, amie sue P.S. I tucked in a photo of the Autumn Harvest Pumpkin Donuts that I made using this caramel sauce as the frosting. Ummm

Ingredients


1/2 cup (80 g) coconut oil, melted

1/2 cup (120 g) almond butter

1/2 cup (100 g) Markus Sweet, powdered

1/2 tsp (1 g) vanilla bean powder

1/8 tsp (1 g) Himalayan pink salt




Preparation:


In the blender combine the coconut oil, almond butter, MarkusSweet, vanilla bean powder, and salt. Blend until creamy smooth.

It will be very liquidy. Let it sit in the fridge until it thicks up for whatever application you choose to use it in.  To speed up the firming process, place in the freezer.




Store in a mason jar the fridge for 5-7 days or in the freezer for 1+ months.

To soften after being refrigerated, place the jar in a bowl filled with warm water. Or you can place it in the dehydrator if you own an Excalibur or equivalent.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



