Cinnamon Date Frosting (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/frosting/cinnamon-date-frosting/



	Cinnamon Date Frosting

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~




Cinnamon Date Frosting is whole food, naturally sweetened, thick and sticky frosting. It’s perfect for decorating cakes, cookies, or even dipping sliced apples into.
Medjool Dates

  


Medjool dates are a deep amber-brown with a crinkly jacket that shimmers from natural sugar crystals. As your teeth sink into the soft, sticky flesh, you will notice hints of a deep rich caramel, hints of wild honey and a touch of cinnamon.




Melt-in-your-mouth Medjools are so luscious they taste as if they have been warmed in an oven.” Mother Natures miracle candy!

  


This past October my husband and I went to the Hood River Harvest Festival where we were introduced to the Naked Date Company.  All I am going to say about that is OMG!  Their dates melt in your mouth.


                      

There are so many incredible health benefits to these little morsels as well.
Benefits of Dates



Constipation: Dates are considered to be a laxative food. This is the reason that dates are beneficial for people suffering from constipation. Forgetting the laxative effect from dates, you need to soak dates for one full night in water. You should consume these soaked dates in the morning like syrup (blending them with some water) to get their actual advantages.

Intestinal Disorders: The nicotinic content that is present in the dates is said to be beneficial for curing all kinds of intestinal disorders. Continuous intake of dates helps to maintain a check on the growth of the pathological organisms and thus, helps in the rise of friendly bacteria in the intestines.

Healthy Heart: Dates are quite helpful in maintaining your heart in a healthy condition. When soaked for a night and crushed in the morning and consumed, they prove to be quite advantageous for weak hearts. They help in fortifying the heart if taken twice in a week.

Sexual Weakness: Dates are even beneficial for increasing sexual stamina in the human body. A handful of dates, when soaked in fresh goat’s milk for the night and then ground in the same milk with the mixture of cardamom powder and honey, becomes a very useful tonic for increasing sex endurance and virility caused due to functional disorders.

I found this information on the Naked Date site. You can visit there to read more…



Ingredients:   

Yields 2 cups



2 cups Medjool dates, pitted

1/2 cup water (maybe)

1 1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Remove the pits from the Medjool dates.

If the dates are hard, soak them in 1/2 cup of hot water for 10-20 minutes.

Once softened place the dates and soak water in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.

It is best not to add any water if you don’t have to. It will all depend on how soft and moist the Medjool dates are that you have.




Add the cinnamon and salt.  Process until the batter turns a creamy caramel color.  This can take about 2-3 minutes.

If you have a Vitamix with a tamper… perfect, this tool will make your life easier. If not, you will need to keep stopping the machine to scrape the batter into towards the blades.

Frost your special treat.  Store any left-overs in the fridge for several weeks or in the freezer for months.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



