Chocolate Syrup (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/frosting/chocolate-syrup/



	Chocolate Syrup

													    
    


				– raw / vegan / gluten-free / nut-free –

Do you remember Hershey’s Chocolate Syrup?  I can recall that we always had a bottle of that tucked in our refrigerator door while I was growing up.



I won’t even skip the fact that I owned a few bottles throughout my adulthood too. Hehe  But, gosh, it’s been 15? 20 years? Since I last purchased any.  Boy, does that make me feel old? :) Some of you were perhaps born on the last day I enjoyed the stuff. haha

Ole well, that is life. :)  I am not comparing this chocolate sauce to the taste of Hershey’s, but it’s gooey, luscious, smooth, and rich with chocolate flavor! It can quickly take the simplest dessert to a tasty new level of the divine.

One thing that Hershey’s is proud of when it comes to their syrup is that it is fat-free… mine isn’t.  BUT mine doesn’t contain; HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP; CORN SYRUP; WATER; COCOA*; SUGAR; CONTAINS 2% OR LESS OF: POTASSIUM SORBATE (PRESERVATIVE); SALT; MONO- AND DIGLYCERIDES*; XANTHAN GUM; POLYSORBATE 60; VANILLIN, ARTIFICIAL FLAVOR … and for that, I am proud.

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


1 1/2 cup maple syrup

1/3 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1/2 cup raw cacao powder

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Blend the sweetener, coconut oil, and cacao powder in a high-speed blender until smooth.

All ingredients must be at room temperature and melted coconut oil so that everything can be mixed well.




Pour into a squeeze container for ease of use.

Place in the fridge to allow to set and thicken a little.

If the sauce thickens up too much, simply place the closed bottle into a bowl of hot water until it melts.  Keep an eye on it because it can go from too thick to too thin.




It will last up to a month in the fridge.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



