Morning Glory Breakfast Leather (raw, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/fruit-leathers/morning-glory-breakfast-leather/



	Morning Glory Breakfast Leather

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I woke up this morning, and before I could wipe away evidence that the Sandman had visited, my very first thought was…OATS and BANANAS…MUST MAKE A WRAP!

I wonder why stuff like that happens.  I didn’t go to bed with that as my last thought.  I must have been creating recipes in my dreams.  It just goes to show that inspiration can come at any given moment.  I was thrilled with how this recipe turned out.  It won’t harden like a cracker; it stays nice and pliable.

You can cut it into strips and put it in small baggies for a snack.  You can cut it into squares, spread a little nut butter on it, and have a nutritious breakfast treat.

Dip it in your yogurt and nosh away…. oh-oh, cut a strip, spread a little nut butter on it, and roll a banana up in it! So many yummy options. I hope you enjoy this simple recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 2 1/2 cups batter




4 large bananas, ripe

1 cup rolled, gluten-free oats

1/4 – 1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 cup raisins


Preparation:


Place the bananas, oats, and cinnamon in the blender and process until the batter is creamy.

Add the raisins and blend for about 10 seconds.

Spread the fruit puree on teflex sheets that come with your dehydrator.  Pour the puree to create an even depth of  1/4 inch.  If you don’t have teflex sheets for the trays, you can line your trays with plastic wrap or parchment paper.  Do not use wax paper or aluminum foil.  Be sure to spread the batter evenly on your drying tray.  This will help assure that the batter will dry evenly.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F)  for about 16 (+/-) hours.  This leather won’t get hard and crispy.  It will remain pliable as demonstrated in the photo below.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



