Green Apple Jolly Rancher Fruit Leather (raw, vegan, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/fruit-leathers/green-apple-fruit-leather/



	Green Apple Fruit Leather

													    
    


				Gravenstein apples are thin-skinned, super tart and snappy, pleasantly puckery when raw.  The flesh is crisp, tart, and floral with a puckering punch that will leave your mouth-watering! Prior to about one month ago, I had never heard of these apples.

With curiosity at its fullest, I snatched up a good size bag of them.  I had no idea what I was going to do with them, but then that is never a worry for me.

I wanted to find a way to preserve them, so I share them with others, and the best way was to make fruit leather.  After creating the fruit leather puree, it came to me that it tastes just like those Green Apple Jolly Ranchers that I grew up sucking on.

A funny but painful story about those darn Jolly Ranchers. They use to make them into sticks, not sure if they still make them or not, but anyway,  I always seemed to have one in hand, sucking and licking away on it.  Then one day, my tongue became inflamed with felt like it was covered with hundreds of canker sores.

My great-grandmother had to take me to the doctor because it was so painful.  I don’t recall that anything was ever done, but I do remember sitting on the floor in the den, directly in front of a big box fan with my tongue hanging out of my mouth.  The fresh air gave me some relief.  I am sure I was a sight to behold.

Ok, let’s move forward and check this recipe out.  I hope it gets your mouth-watering and that you try making this recipe.  I realize that Gravenstein apples are not always available due to season and location, so if you want to make the recipe still, pick a sour green apple as a substitute.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

yields 4 cups puree


3 Gravenstein apples (1.6 lbs) or any tart green apple

2 large bananas, ripe

2 Tbsp raw coconut crystals

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Select RIPE Gravenstein apples that have reached a peak in color, texture, and flavor. (see below for selecting)

Prepare the apples; wash, dry, and core.

Puree the apples, bananas, coconut crystals, cinnamon, and salt, in the blender or food processor until smooth.  Taste and sweeten more if needed.

Keep in mind that flavors will intensify as they dehydrate.

When adding a sweetener, do so 1 tbsp at a time, and reblend, tasting until it is at the desired taste.  It is best to use a liquid type sweetener.  Don’t use granulated sugar because it tends to change the texture.  

If the apples create a puddle of juice after the pureeing process, add 1-2 Tbsp of ground chia seeds and allow the mixture to rest so it can absorb the fluid.  Proceed as normal.




Spread the fruit puree on teflex sheets that come with your dehydrator.  Pour the puree to create an even depth of 1/8 to 1/4 inch.  If you don’t have teflex sheets for the trays, you can line your trays with plastic wrap or parchment paper.  Do not use wax paper or aluminum foil.

Lightly coat the food dehydrator plastic sheets or wrap with a cooking spray, I use coconut oil that comes in a spray.

When spreading the puree on the liner, allow about an inch of space between the mixture and the outside edge.  The fruit leather mixture will spread out as it dries, so it needs a little room to allow for this expansion.

Be sure to spread the puree evenly on your drying tray.  When spreading the puree mixture, try tilting and shaking the tray to help it distribute more evenly.  Also, it is a good idea to rotate your trays throughout the drying period.  This will help assure that the leathers dry evenly.




Dehydrate the fruit leather at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce temp to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for about 4 hours.

Flip the leather over about halfway through, remove the teflex sheet, and continue drying on the mesh sheet.  The finished consistency should be pliable and easy to roll.

Check for dark spots on top of the fruit leather.  If dark spots can be seen, it is a sign that it is not completely dry.

Press down on the fruit leather with a finger.  If no indentation is visible or if it is no longer tacky to the touch, the fruit leather is dry and can be removed from the dehydrator.

Peel the leather from the dehydrator trays or parchment paper. If it peels away easily and holds its shape after peeling, it is dry. If it is still sticking or loses its shape after peeling, it needs further drying.

Under-dried fruit leather will not keep; it will mold.  Over-dried fruit leather will become hard and crack, although it will still be edible and will continue for a long time.




Storage: To store the finished fruit leather…

Allow the leather to cool before wrapping up to avoid moisture from forming, thus giving it a breeding ground for molds.

Roll them up and wrap them tightly with plastic wrap.  Click (here) to see photos on how I wrap them.

Place in an air-tight container and store in a dry, dark place. (Light will cause the fruit leather to discolor.)

The fruit leather will keep at room temperature for one month, or in a freezer for up to one year.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however, honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



