Chocolate Banana Personal "Pizza" Fruit Leather (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/fruit-leathers/chocolate-banana-personal-pizza-fruit-leather/



	Chocolate Banana  Personal “Pizza” Fruit Leather

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe is an excellent way to spend some fun time in the kitchen with kids.  Even if you don’t have any children, this is still a lot of fun to make.  There are endless possibilities for toppings that you can use on this dessert-style pizza.

No need to go out and buy any particular ingredients,  this is an opportunity to use up the ripe fruit on the counter or the nuts and dried fruits in the cabinet. That is exactly what I did.

These would great to make ahead for up-and-coming birthday parties, slumber parties, or whatever the special occasion may be.  Party on dudes and dudettes!

Ingredients:

Yields: 3 1/2 cups puree (16 / 1/4 cup circles)

Leather:


5 medium ripe bananas

2 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1 Tbsp maple syrup

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


 Topping:


1/4 cup shredded coconut

7  diced fresh strawberries

1/4 cup chopped peanuts

1/4 cup cacao nibs



Preparation:


Select RIPE or slightly overripe bananas that have reached a peak in color, texture, and flavor.  The banana skins should have lots of brown spots (not to be confused with bruises).

Puree the bananas, cacao, maple syrup, cinnamon, vanilla, and salt, in the blender or food processor until smooth.

Taste and sweeten more if needed.  Keep in mind that flavors will intensify as they dehydrate.

When adding a sweetener do a little at a time, and reblend, tasting until it is at the desired taste.

It is best to use a liquid type sweetener.  Don’t use granulated sugar because it tends to change the texture.  




Using a 1/4 cup measuring cup, pour the puree into small circles.  All the puree to pour in the center of the circle and hold steady.  This will cause the puree to form a near to perfect circle.  Using the bottom of the measuring cup, gently touch it down on the puree and make a small circle to fan it out to about 4″.  You can make any size that you want.

When spreading the puree on the liner, allow about an inch of space between the mixture and the outside edge.  The fruit leather mixture will spread out as it dries, so it needs a little room to allow for this expansion.

Now place your toppings on top of the wet leather.




Dehydrate the fruit leather at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce temp to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for about 6-8 (+/-) hours.  Flip the leather over about half way through, remove the teflex sheet, and continue drying on the mesh sheet.  The finished consistency should be pliable and easy to roll.

Check for dark spots on top of the fruit leather.  If dark spots can be seen it is a sign that it is not completely dry.

Press down on the fruit leather with a finger.  If no indentation is visible or if it is no longer tacky to the touch, the fruit leather is dry and can be removed from the dehydrator.

Peel the leather from the dehydrator trays or parchment paper. If it peels away easily and holds its shape after peeling, it is dry. If it is still sticking or loses its shape after peeling, it needs further drying.

Under-dried fruit leather will not keep; it will mold.  Over-dried fruit leather will become hard and crack, although it will still be edible and will keep for a long time




Storage: to store the finished fruit leather…

Allow the leather to cool before wrapping up to avoid moisture from forming, thus giving it a breeding ground for molds.

Wrap individually, so they don’t stick to one another.

Place in an air-tight container, and store in a dry, dark place. (Light will cause the fruit leather to discolor.)

The fruit leather will keep in the fridge for one month, or in a freezer for up to one year.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.






Sprinkle on the toppings…


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



