Pumpkin Bliss Fruit Leather (raw, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/fruit-leathers/pumpkin-bliss-fruit-leather/



	Pumpkin Bliss Fruit Leather

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free ~

I find Autumn to be one of the most beautiful seasons of all. With the leaves on trees and shrubs changing color from green into shades of yellow, orange, and red, a warmth starts to build up inside of me.

The beginning of fall always signifies two of my favorite things: snuggling up on the couch in blankets with my husband (ok we do that year-round) and being able to wear my footed PJ’s.

Yep, footed jammies.  I have quite a collection…somewhat of an addiction. Haha,  This fruit leather came out perfect and is just in time to help me usher in the marvelous season of Fall.

Ingredients:

yields 4 cups puree




2 cups sliced peaches

2 ripe bananas

3/4 cup pumpkin puree

1 Tbsp maple syrup

1 Tbsp raw honey

1 tsp ground  Ceylon cinnamon

1 dash ground cloves

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup dried cranberries

1 cup raw walnuts or pecans



Preparation:


Select RIPE or slightly overripe bananas and peaches that have reached a peak in color, texture, and flavor. (use bananas with brown speckled peels)

Prepare the peaches; wash, dry, and remove stones.  Make your pumpkin puree or use organic canned pumpkin.

Puree the peaches, bananas, pumpkin, sweeteners,  cinnamon, cloves, and salt, in the blender or food processor until smooth.

Taste and sweeten more if needed.  Keep in mind that flavors will intensify as they dehydrate.

When adding a sweetener do so 1 tbsp at a time, and reblend, tasting until it is at the desired taste.

It is best to use a liquid type sweetener.  Don’t use a granulated sugar because it tends to change the texture. 

After the puree is nice and smooth, add the dried cranberries and blend for about 48 seconds.

Now add the walnuts and pulse about 4x.




Spread the fruit puree on teflex sheets that come with your dehydrator.  Pour the puree to create an even depth of 1/8 to 1/4 inch.  If you don’t have teflex sheets for the trays, you can line your trays with plastic wrap or parchment paper.  Do not use wax paper or aluminum foil.

Lightly coat the food dehydrator plastic sheets or wrap with a cooking spray, I use coconut oil that comes in a spray.

When spreading the puree on the liner, allow about an inch of space between the mixture and the outside edge.  The fruit leather mixture will spread out as it dries, so it needs a little room to allow for this expansion.

Be sure to spread the puree evenly on your drying tray.  When spreading the puree mixture, try tilting and shaking the tray to help it distribute more evenly.  Also, it is a good idea to rotate your trays throughout the drying period.  This will help assure that the leathers dry evenly.




Dehydrate the fruit leather at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce temp to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for about 4 hours.

Transfer the semi-dried banana chips onto the leather, gently pressing them in.  Continue drying for about 4-6 hours or until done.  Flip the leather over about half way through, remove the teflex sheet and continue drying on the mesh sheet.  Finished consistency should be pliable and easy to roll.

Check for dark spots on top of the fruit leather.  If dark spots can be seen it is a sign that it is not completely dry.

Press down on the fruit leather with a finger.  If no indentation is visible or if it is no longer tacky to the touch, the fruit leather is dry and can be removed from the dehydrator.

Peel the leather from the dehydrator trays or parchment paper. If it peels away easily and holds its shape after peeling, it is dry. If it is still sticking or loses its shape after peeling, it needs further drying.

Under-dried fruit leather will not keep; it will mold.  Over-dried fruit leather will become hard and crack, although it will still be edible and will keep for a long time




Storage: to store the finished fruit leather…

Allow the leather to cool before wrapping up to avoid moisture from forming, thus giving it a breeding ground for molds.

Wrap tightly with plastic wrap.  Click (here) to see photos on how I wrap them.

Place in an air-tight container, and store in a dry, dark place. (Light will cause the fruit leather to discolor.)

The fruit leather will keep at room temperature for one month, or in a freezer for up to one year.






Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



