Balsamic Banana-Berry Fruit Leather (raw, vegan, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/fruit-leathers/balsamic-banana-berry-fruit-leather/



	Balsamic Banana Berry Fruit Leather

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I had a strong feeling that these flavors would play well together in this fruit leather recipe. The acidity of the balsamic vinegar balanced out perfectly with the sweetness of the strawberries and banana.

I only added the maple syrup because it needed just a bump in sweetness according to my tastes. So, I recommend making the puree without the sweetener, taste it, and see what you think.  This recipe will always shift in taste between batches due to the flavor of the strawberries.

The bananas help to create a nice foundation for thick, flexible fruit leather. Be sure to select spotted bananas. The riper, the better.

Before we dive into this recipe, I should point out that balsamic vinegar is not raw. If this is an issue for you, just omit it. I don’t have a problem with it and Bob and I just love the richness of it.

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 3 1/2 cups puree


2 cups fresh, organic strawberries

3 large bananas, ripe

1 Tbsp maple syrup

1 Tbsp balsamic vinegar

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Select RIPE or slightly overripe bananas and strawberries that have reached a peak in color, texture, and flavor.

Puree the fruit, maple syrup, balsamic, salt, and vanilla extract, in the blender or food processor until smooth.  Taste, and sweeten more if needed.  Keep in mind that flavors will intensify as it dehydrates.  When adding a sweetener do so a little time, and reblend, tasting until it is at the desired taste.  It is best to use a liquid type sweetener.  Don’t use granulated sugar because it tends to change the texture.

Spread the fruit puree on teflex sheets that come with your dehydrator.  Pour the puree to create an even depth of 1/8 to 1/4 inch.  If you don’t have teflex sheets for the trays, you can line your trays with plastic wrap or parchment paper.  Do not use wax paper or aluminum foil.

Lightly coat the food dehydrator plastic sheets or wrap with a cooking spray, I use coconut oil that comes in a spray.

When spreading the puree on the liner, allow about an inch of space between the mixture and the outside edge.  The fruit leather mixture will spread out as it dries, so it needs a little room to allow for this expansion.

Be sure to spread the puree evenly on your drying tray.  When spreading the puree mixture, try tilting and shaking the tray to help it distribute more evenly.  Also, it is a good idea to rotate your trays throughout the drying period.  This will help assure that the leathers dry evenly.




Dehydrate the fruit leather at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce temp to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for about 16 (+/-) hours.  The finished consistency should be pliable and easy to roll.

Check for dark spots on top of the fruit leather.  If dark spots can be seen it is a sign that the fruit leather is not completely dry.

Press down on the fruit leather with a finger.  If no indentation is visible or if it is no longer tacky to the touch, the fruit leather is dry and can be removed from the dehydrator.

Peel the leather from the dehydrator trays or parchment paper. If it peels away easily and holds its shape after peeling, it is dry. If it is still sticking or loses its shape after peeling, it needs further drying.

Under-dried fruit leather will not keep; it will mold.  Over-dried fruit leather will become hard and crack, although it will still be edible and will keep for a long time




Storage: To store the finished fruit leather…

Allow the leather to cool before wrapping up to avoid moisture from forming, thus giving it a breeding ground for molds.

Roll them up and wrap them tightly with plastic wrap.  Click (here) to see photos of how I wrap them.

Place in an air-tight container, and store in a dry, dark place. (Light will cause the fruit leather to discolor.)

The fruit leather will keep at room temperature for one month, or in a freezer for up to one year.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



