"Raw" Gift Ideas
https://nouveauraw.com/gift-ideas-raw-recipes/dried-fruit-gift-giving-idea/



	Dried Fruit Gift Giving Idea

													    
    


				Dried fruit allows us to enjoy seasonal fruits all year round.   It’s completely guilt-free and can make a great gift for the health conscious friends or family in your life that love fruit.

Best of all, you have control over the fruits that you use.  If possible you can select locally grown fruits, fruits that are in season, ripe, and organic, and when all is said and done… there won’t be any added sugars or sulfates.

There are so many fabulous jars and containers on the market these days. I always have my eyes open for creative ways to present edible gifts in.

Bob and I visited IKEA… holy smokes, I was ready to pitch a tent and camp overnight… that place is HUGE. Thank goodness I brought my water container with me to stay hydrated. We didn’t really have an agenda when we entered the doors, we just wanted to see what this place was all about.

After a few hundred turns, I stumbled upon these really nifty cream colored tins. They came as a set of 2 for $8.99. Now that’s a deal worth sharing. I am not sure how long they keep things in stock, but for now, you can find them (here).

I lined the inside with brown parchment paper and added the dried apples. If it will be longer than a week till you give this as a gift, I would put the dried apples in an air-tight bag and put that inside the tin. This will help keep them fresh.

This is also an excellent opportunity to reuse and repurpose containers from around the house. I had some gallon sized plastic containers that dried beans had come in.

Bob and I toted them around for years.  They bounced between the garage, my craft room and then into my pantry.  I just hated the idea of throwing them away because I just knew that one day the perfect project would come along… and so it did!   To dress them up I made my own labels on my home computer and printer, spray painted the lids and added a drawer pull to the top for some added flare.

I also use jars for any opportunity of gift giving as well.  I found an excellent site that sells adorable lids that come in several colors. It is called Factory Direct Crafts.  That is where I got the brown rustic lid in the photo to the right.   Shoot, you could put dried beans in that jar and make it seem like an exciting gift. :)

I created a whole new category for dehydrated fruits and shared the links here to get you started.  The ones with a * after it indicates new recipe/technique.  The techniques are simple, but I thought it worth sharing anyway.  I will add more over time, but there are enough here to get you started or to give you at least some ideas.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Dehydrated Fruits:

Dried Peaches

Dried Apples

Dried Kiwi *

Dried Pineapple*

Dried Banana Chips

Dried Watermelon *

Dried Papaya Spears *

Dried Mangos *

Dried Date Nibblers

Dried Plums*

Dried Persimmons*

 

 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



