Tropical "Beet" Granola (nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/tropical-beet-granola/



	Tropical “Beet” Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I can see you wrinkling your nose… yes, you! I see you!  Can I ask for a favor?  Can you just trust me on this and give it a try? Even if you don’t care for beets, please try it.  I don’t ask for much from you, do I?

The reason I feel so confident in asking a non-beet-eater to try this is… Bob, my loving husband, hates, despises, loathes… dislikes beets, putting it mildly, and he ended up really enjoying this granola.

I was sneaky when I presented it to him, I didn’t tell him the name of the recipe nor did I explain what was in it.  I just asked if he would try it, he tilted his head back and opened his mouth… I dropped in a cluster of granola mixed with a few dried fruits. He chewed and swallowed.  I sat there staring at him, but trying not to be obvious about it.

I wanted to catch his unedited facial expression after tasting it.  That often tells me more than any words could.  He nodded his head up and down (always a good sign), his eyebrows lifted (another positive reaction), he gently moved his mouth around as if savoring and thinking about the flavor (I held my breath) and he didn’t go running to the kitchen to wash the taste out of his mouth.  That right there said everything I needed.  Then to confirm my thoughts, he nodded at me and said that he really liked it.  He still doesn’t know that I made it with beets and that will remain our little secret, well until he reads this post. haha

When working with red and pink beets, be prepared for beet-red stains on your hands and countertops. Because the color is difficult to remove from wood or plastic surfaces, you may want to work on waxed paper and wear gloves.  Choose small to medium beets for a sweeter flavor, and look for those with fresh-looking green tops. When you get them home, store beets and greens separately.  Use the greens within two days, but you can refrigerate the beets in a plastic bag for up to two weeks.

So why use beets?  Well for starters I needed some color in my life!  Most granola mixes are in the natural tan and brown colors, which I thoroughly enjoy, but sometimes I just crave color.  I knew that I didn’t want to use any food coloring chemical, so beets came to mind.  I have been making beet juice for the past week, and the color always leaves me amazed at just how gorgeous it is.  This recipe is an excellent way to use the leftover pulp from making beet juice, such as my  Sweet & Spicy Detox Juice.

Ingredients:

Yields 10 cups dried granola


2 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked

1 cup buckwheat, soaked

1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

6 large, pitted Medjool dates, soaked  in 1/2 cup  hot water

1 Tbsp coconut oil

1 medium red beet (92 g), rough chopped or beet pulp

1 Tbsp maple syrup

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

20 drops liquid stevia

2 cups coconut flakes

2 cups dried pineapple, chopped

1/2 cup dried cranberries


Preparation:


Soak the oats, sunflower seeds, and buckwheat as instructed in the links above.

The oats and sunflower seeds take the longest… the buckwheat only needs 30 minutes unless you plan on sprouting it.

Once done soaking the oats and buckwheat, drain and rinse them for about 2 minutes under cool water.  Hand squeeze the excess water from them.

Drain, discard, and rinse the soak water from the sunflower seeds.

Place all three in a large mixing bowl and set aside.




Re-hydrate the dates by placing them in 1/2 cup of hot water.  Add the coconut oil, so it melts while the dates soften. Soak for 15 minutes.

Soaking the dates will soften them which will make it easier for blending.




Rough chop the beet and place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.  Add the dates, coconut oil, soak water, maple syrup, cinnamon, salt, and stevia.  Process until it becomes a sauce.

Pour the red sauce over the oats, (etc).  Mix well.

Spread the batter, edge to edge on the teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry for roughly for 8 hours or until dry.

I used 2 Excalibur dehydrator trays.




Once dry, place in a large bowl and hand mix in the coconut flakes, pineapple, and cranberries.

By doing this afterward, it prevents everything from turning a reddish/pink color.  I wanted a variety of colors.

Store in an airtight glass container on your counter for several weeks.  Enjoy with nut milk, yogurt, or just as a snack by the handful.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Click (here) to learn why I use stevia.

Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



