Nutty Gingerbread Granola (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/nutty-gingerbread-granola/



	Nutty Gingerbread Granola

													    
    


				Nutty Gingerbread Granola


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I confess I cleaned out my pantry when developing this recipe. After creating so many new recipes, it was time to start going through the odds and ends of ingredients.

My intent was to make gingerbread granola, so that part was planned. The beauty of granola recipes that you can really tweak them and come out with some pretty amazing combinations.  Just to clarify… if you have prepared (already soaked and dehydrated) oats, nuts, seeds, and buckwheat in your pantry waiting to be used, there is no need to resoak them.  But if you don’t I recommend that you do all the preparations as indicated below in the ingredient list.

There are so many amazing ingredients in this recipe that I wasn’t sure which one to focus on.  I decided on the Brazil nuts.  I don’t think they win the spotlight very often.  They are high in Vitamin E and selenium which helps prevent coronary artery disease, liver cirrhosis, and cancers.

In addition to selenium, they contain very good levels of other minerals such as copper, magnesium, manganese, potassium, calcium, iron, phosphorus, and zinc.  Copper helps prevent anemia and bone weakness (osteoporosis). Manganese is an all-important co-factor for the antioxidant enzyme, superoxide dismutase.

Brazil nuts are also high in healthy fats, and because of that, great care needs to be taken when selecting and storing them.  Buy whole, brown color nuts that feel full, compact, and heavy in hand.  Avoid shriveled and damaged ones as they may be affected by fungal mold.  Unshelled Brazil nuts will keep well in a cool, dry place for a few months. The best way to store them is to put them in glass jars and inside the refrigerator or freezer.  This method will prevent them from turning rancid.

I hope that you enjoy this recipe and all the nutrient glory that it beholds. Be sure to comment below and have a blessed day. amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 16-18 cups

Dry Ingredients:


2 cups raw almonds, soaked

1 cup brazil nuts, soaked

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 1/2 tsp ground ginger

1 1/2 tsp fresh cracked black pepper

1 tsp ground cloves

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3 cups raw, gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated

2 cups coconut flakes, unsweetened

1 cup cashews, soaked

1/2 cup pumpkin seeds, soaked

1/2 cup buckwheat, sprouted

3/4 cup dried cherries or cranberries


Wet Ingredients:


2 cups packed Medjool dates, pitted

1 cup water


Preparation:


Have 4 dehydrator trays ready to go.  Place non-stick sheets on top of the mesh sheets.

If you don’t have any non-stick sheets, you can use parchment paper, but not wax.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, break down the almonds and Brazil nuts along with the cinnamon, ginger, black pepper, cloves, and salt.  Pulse the nuts until they are medium-sized chunks.   Place a large bowl.

By adding the spice during this step, you enjoy a better distribution of flavor.




Add to the bowl the; oats, coconut flakes, cashews, pumpkin seeds, buckwheat, cherries, and spices.  Toss together with your fingers, making sure everything is well mixed.

Back in the food processor process the dates and water till it is nice and creamy.  Pour into the bowl of dry ingredients and mix well with your hands.


Dehydrate:


Line the dehydrator sheets with non-stick sheets.

Loosely spread the mixture on the sheets.

Do not have them any thicker than 1″ or the dry time will increase.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 10+ hours, until completely dry.

Dry time will vary based on the climate, humidity, how thick the batter is spread out, etc.  So use the dry time as a guideline.




Be sure all the moisture is removed to increase shelf-life.


Storage:


Store in airtight mason jars for 2-3 weeks or so..

Store in the freezer for up to 3 months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



