Zesty Orange and Cranberry Granola
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/zesty-orange-and-cranberry-granola/



	Zesty Orange and Cranberry Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Cranberries… they are zesty, tangy, and bursting with red freshness!  They evoke autumn hues and a celebratory flavor. When you think of fresh cranberries does your mouth pucker just at the mere thought of them as mine does?

I have been doing some interesting reading on cranberries, and I want you to know that we need to embrace that lip-puckering sourness.  Sour taste increases bile production from the liver.  Bile breaks up fat into little tiny bits that are easier to digest, a process called emulsification.   By flushing bile, sour taste assists the liver in detoxifying the blood.  Cranberries are also high in antioxidants which detoxify free radicals.

In this recipe, I added the complementary flavor of orange as well.  Did you know that orange zest stimulates metabolism and reduces stomach stagnation?

Make a batch of this granola and once it is done, enjoy the sumptuous flavors that will tantalize your taste buds.  Just be aware that without you even realizing it … a whole host of incredible health benefits is taking place in your body.  Sneaky huh? :)

For the spices in this recipe, I used the contents of the Fire Light Chai Tea bags.  I simply cut the bags open and poured them into my batter.  I love using teas in this manner because you can find really unique flavor combinations.  Feel free to use any cinnamon or chai tea mix that you can find.

Ingredients:

Yields 12 cups

Dry Ingredients:


2 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked

1 cup raw hazelnuts, soaked

1 cup raw walnuts, soaked

1 cup raisins


Wet Ingredients:


2 cups fresh cranberries

1/2 cup raw applesauce

3 bags Fire Light Chai Tea, contents only

1 orange, segmented, flesh only

1 Tbsp orange zest

1/2 tsp liquid stevia


Preparation:


After soaking the oats and nuts, we need to drain and discard the soak water.

Be sure to rinse the oats in cool water for about 2 minutes.  Hand-squeeze the excess water from them.

Feel free to rough chop the nuts if you want smaller pieces in the granola.




Place the oats, nuts, and raisins in a large bowl.  Set aside.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse together the; cranberries, applesauce,  tea bag contents, orange flesh, and zest and stevia.

Pulse just enough times to break up the cranberries but don’t over-process into a sauce.  Pour into the bowl with the oats and nuts.  Mix together until everything is well coated.

If you don’t have access to fresh cranberries, you can use dried cranberries. They will be sweeter. You can also use organic frozen cranberries.  Defrost and drain any liquid from the bag before using.




Spread batter on the teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for 15-18 hours, or until dry.

Dry times will always vary depending on your climate, humidity, how thick or thin the batter is spread, and how full the machine is.




Once cooled, store in an airtight container on the counter for 1-2 weeks, in the fridge for 2-3 weeks, and even longer in the freezer.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



Click (here) to learn why I use stevia.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



