Game Night Trail Mix (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/game-night-trail-mix/



	Game Night Trail Mix

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe was inspired when I created a whole wonderful stockpile of Tootsie Chew candies.  When I made those candies, I cut them into 2” pieces and wrapped each one individually.  I was busy creating Christmas gifts for my loved ones.

Anyway, I ended up with a bunch of oddball sized pieces when I was finished.  So, I cut them into smaller bite-sized chunks and tossed them with a variety of nuts, dried cranberries, and chocolate chips.  Scrump-Dilly-Ish-Ous! I will share links below for the candies.  You don’t have to make them all… I am just sharing an idea on how you can transform one recipe into another.

The first thing that came to mind was GAME NIGHT!  Peering down at the bowl, I could envision many different hands diving into the bowl at the same time, scrounging for a handful of goodness.

For creative gift packaging, I had ordered some Clear Gumball Tubes and loaded them up with the trail mix.  I think they turned out adorable!  To complete the gift idea, I had a set of personalized deck of playing cards made for a handful of friends. Shutterfly.com is just one of the many places that do them.

Also for not just gift-giving, but also for quick-grab-and-go-snacks for Bob, I made up some small bags.  They are 4 x 6” bags and hold about 1/2 cup.  You can find them (here).  I hope you enjoy this recipe.

Ingredients:

yields 4 cups


1 cup mixed Tootsie chews

1 cup cashews, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup pistachios, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup raw hazelnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup dried cranberries

1/3 cup raw chocolate chips, or store-bought


Preparation:


In a large mixing bowl, combine the Tootsie chew pieces, cashews, pistachios, hazelnuts, cranberries, and chocolate chips.  Toss together and try not to eat the whole bowl. Seriously… you will get a tummy ache.

I used a mixture of the following candies, but remember you don’t have to make them all in order to make this recipe. Raspberry Chocolate Tootsie Chews, Strawberry Tootsie Chews,

Leave on the counter in an open bowl for easy-snacking-access.  Or store in an airtight container for many weeks.  You can also store this mix in the fridge or freezer to extend the shelf life.



















 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



