Raw Fall Harvest Granola Brittle
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/fall-harvest-granola-brittle/



	Fall Harvest Granola Brittle

													    
    


				

Fall Harvest Granola Brittle


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The days are getting shorter, but that’s ok because, with pumpkins in my presence, they are getting better, yay. :)

Granola brittle?  To be quite frank, I must admit that when I started this recipe, I had no idea what it was going to be in the end.  I hope that I haven’t tainted your confidence in me.  Hehe,  I rummaged through my pantry and fridge… pulling out everything/anything that sounded good.

With the ingredients in front of me, I thought that I would make cookies.  Once everything was mixed, I started plopping little cookies on the dehydrator tray.  I pulled up the stool, set my scoop down and stared at my cookies… boring!  They just weren’t talking to me, so I dumped them all back into the bowl.

Bars? Naw.  A bread? Naw.  I was eye level with the bowl, and I whispered, “Talk to me, talk to me.”  A voice from behind me said, “Grab your coat, we are going to town.”  That wasn’t exactly the voice I was waiting to hear from but none-the-less, I put a piece of plastic over the bowl and ran to town with my husband.

Little did I know that our “quick trip to town” would turn into an eight-hour adventure.  By the time we got home, I was plum tuckered out.  I saw the bowl on the counter and figured that I best do something quickly with it before bed.  So, I spread it out on a non-stick teflex sheet and popped it into the dehydrator.

After it was almost done drying, I decided to leave it as-is for the remainder of the dry time.  Normally I would score such a sheet of batter into crackers, but then the idea hit me that it would be just like granola but in broken brittle snack sizes.  My excitement was back!

Along with pumpkin puree, I added pumpkin pie spice which is made up of spicy cinnamon, nutmeg, and cozy clove. Perfect belly-warming spices for those chilly days.  With the crunchy texture from the pecans and oats and all the other amazing ingredients, it makes for a beloved fall favorite. Give this recipe a try and celebrate the season… before it escapes us!

Ingredients:

Yields 1 tray

Dry ingredients:


1 cup raw pecans, soaked & dehydrated

1 1/4 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup chopped dried cranberries

1/2 cup mesquite powder

2 Tbsp ground flaxseed

2 tsp pumpkin spice

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Wet ingredients:


1/4 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup raw coconut milk

1/2 cup pumpkin puree

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup water

1 Tbsp pure vanilla extract

1/4 tsp liquid NuNaturals stevia


Preparation:


In a large bowl combine the pecans, oats, cranberries, mesquite powder, flax, pumpkin spice, and salt.  Mix well.

Add the coconut oil, coconut milk, pumpkin puree, maple syrup, water, vanilla, and stevia.  Mix well.  I used my hands (this is my common practice).

Spread the batter on the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

You can use parchment paper if you don’t have the teflex sheets but keep away from wax paper.  (food will stick)

Spread the batter in one large sheet about 1/4″ thick.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours or until dry enough to flip over on the mesh sheet.

Peel the teflex sheet off and continue drying for up to 24 hours or until it is crunchy dry when you break it apart.




Store in an airtight container for a few weeks on the counter or in the freezer for up to 3 months.


Substitutions:


Pecans nuts ~ If you don’t like pecans nuts… try using your favorite nut in place of it! :)

Flax meal ~ In place of flax, try chia seeds.  I added this for the health benefit.

Cranberries ~ Replace the cranberries with any other dried fruit if desired.

Maple syrup ~ You can use raw coconut nectar or any other liquid sweetener that you enjoy using.

Liquid stevia ~  You can omit this altogether.  I added it to elevate the sweetness without adding in more “sugars”.   This granola is not very sweet, but then you can tailor it to your tastes.

If you can’t make your own pumpkin puree, you can use canned.  Buy organic, BPA-free pumpkin puree that doesn’t include any other ingredients.

Mesquite powder – I recommend it but it can be omitted altogether.

Pumpkin puree – Don’t like it? Can’t find it?  Not in season?  Try blending up some apples instead.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



