Pumpkin Granola (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/pumpkin-granola/



	Pumpkin Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Pumpkin, pumpkin, pumpkin…I just love pumpkins!  When this time of year rolls around, I just get giddy when I walk into a grocery store and find pumpkins stacked all over.

The other day I ran into the store, leaving my husband in the truck, assuring him that I didn’t need his help because I only needed one thing.  WRONG!  As soon as I walked through those automatic opening doors, spreading apart for my grand entry…there they were.

Gorgeous, orange, robust pumpkins!  I swear they just hopped into my arms.  What was one to do?  I didn’t grab a cart on the way in, but that didn’t detour me.

I found a hand-basket and loaded it up, then I found another handbasket and loaded it up too!  Hey, I had to balance myself and give both arms a good workout, didn’t I?  I waddled out to the truck with four double-bagged bags in hand.  Move over Jane Fonda, da’ pumpkins are in da’house!

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 12 cups dried




4 cups raw, gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

1/2 cup raw almonds, soaked & chopped

1/2 cup unsweetened flaked coconut

3/4 cup sugar pumpkin puree

3/4 cup dried cranberries or goji berries, re-hydrated

1/2 cup raisins

1/4 cup raw pumpkin seeds, soaked

1/4 – 1/2 cup maple syrup or equivalent

1 tsp vanilla extract

1 1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp nutmeg

1/2 tsp ground ginger

1/2 tsp Himalayan salt


Preparation:


After soaking the oats, nuts, and seeds as instructed in the link above, drain and rinse them before adding them to the mixing bowl.

The oats will take a few minutes to rinse.  The water will be very milky and then start to get cloudy. It will never run clear but rinse under cool water for about 2 minutes, agitating it with your fingers the whole time.  Squeeze the excess water from them and add to the mixing bowl.




Now add the remaining ingredients: pumpkin puree, dried fruit, coconut, sweetener, vanilla, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, and salt. Mix well.

Drop clusters of the batter on the teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator.

If you don’t have those you can use parchment paper, but don’t use wax paper because the granola will stick to it.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry for up to 24 hours.

Partway through, flip the tray over onto the mesh screen, and peel off the teflex sheet.

Continue drying until the desired dryness is reached.

I tend to like my granola more on the chewy side than the crunchy side.




Once done and cooled, store the granola in airtight containers.  You can keep it on the countertop for walk-by munching, or it can be stored in the fridge or freezer to extend the shelf life.  On the counter, it should last several weeks if it lasts that long!



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



