Sweet Grain Granola (nut-free, raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/sweet-grain-granola/



	Sweet Grain Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Sweet Grain Granola is crunchy, full of flavor, and loaded with nutrients.  Throw some in a Zip-lock bag and hit the road knowing that you have some extra “fuel” along,  should your energy batteries need recharging!

Whenever Bob and I travel, I pack a goody bag, unannounced to him.  I am not just talking about long-haul trips; I am even referring to a trip to town to run errands. Hehe, As we work our way through the day, I pull out snack bags to keep his metabolism revved up.  The delight that twinkles in his eyes when I do this just blesses me.

These snack bags can contain raw cookies, bars, granolas, mixed sprouted nuts, seeds, and dried fruit, or it might even be something simple like grapes.  The sweet thing (ONE of the sweet things) about Bob is that he always acts so surprised and excited when I do this. It just makes me giggle.

I do hope that you give this recipe a try and enjoy it as we did. Please leave a comment below, letting me know that you stopped by or made the recipe.  It means a lot to hear from you.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 16 cups



Dry Ingredients:


4 cups raw, gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

1 cup buckwheat, soaked & sprouted

1 cup raw pumpkin seeds, soaked

1 cup raw hemp seeds

1 cup raisins

1 cup shredded coconut

2 Tbsp ground chia seeds


Wet Ingredients:


1/4 cup yucan syrup or coconut nectar

1 1/4 cup raw apple sauce

2 Tbsp raw coconut oil, melted

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp cardamom

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp Allspice seasoning

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp liquid NuNaturals stevia


Preparation:


After soaking the oats, drain and rinse under cool water for 2 minutes.

Use your fingers to agitate the oats under the water.

Hand squeeze the excess water from them and place it in a large bowl.




Drain and rinse the pumpkin seeds, adding them to the bowl with the oats.

Add buckwheat, hemp seeds, raisins, coconut, and chia seeds.

If you don’t want to sprout the buckwheat fully, soak for 30 minutes. Drain and rinse for two minutes under cool water.




In a separate bowl, stir together the wet ingredients.  Pour over the oat mixture and mix until everything is evenly coated.

Spread the mixture onto the non-stick teflex sheets that come with your dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and dry for 10 hours or until it reaches the desired dryness.

Dry time will always vary depending on the climate, humidity, and how thick or thin you spread the granola batter.

This granola dries very crisply.




Once cooled, store in an airtight container on the counter for 1-2 weeks, in the fridge for 2-3 weeks, and even longer in the freezer.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



Click (here) to learn why I use stevia.

To learn more about Yacon syrup by clicking (here).

Hemp seeds don’t require soaking. Click (here) to learn more.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



