Coconut Pineapple Ginger Granola - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/coconut-pineapple-ginger-granola/



	Coconut Pineapple Ginger Granola

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

 

I am always on the hunt for great flavor profiles. I grabbed a piece of paper and pencil (I love writing with pencils… seems old fashion), and I sketched out a combination of flavors that I just knew would play well together. Pineapple, coconut, ginger, and honey.  Kind of warms the belly just saying it, doesn’t it? :)

 

Preparing food with love provides food for the soul.

 

And that is what this recipe is all about.  I am all about nourishing not only the soul but the body.  With all the ingredients combined, you will be filling your body full of healthy fats, colon cleaning fiber (somebody has to say it), anti-inflammatory effects and will give you an immediate energy boost.

 

Filled with nuts, seeds, dried fruit, and gently flavored by all ingredients involved, this granola will soon become an excellent treat to take with you on the go. Whether it’s a hike from the kitchen to the laundry room or a two-mile route through the aisles of the craft store… you will be able to sustain your energy with this transportable snack.

 

I not only enjoy granolas because of all their amazing flavors but also because they make for a wonderful staple to have on hand in the pantry, fridge or freezer.  I like to make up large batches, keeping some on the counter in a jar (for snack attacks) and I then put the other half in the freezer.

 

Just when Bob thinks his snack cabinet is running empty… boom! I will pull a bag of granola out of the freezer, and all is well once again. :)  Come on, give me your hand… I am going to help you make this recipe.  You grab all of the ingredients, and I will pull out the bowls and measuring cups…. things are going to get a little messy, but Bob will clean it up for us. Haha (ooooh Bob…….)

Ingredients:

Yields 16 cups dried


4 cups gluten-free, rolled oats, soaked

1 cup almonds, soaked & chopped

1/2 cup pumpkin seeds, soaked

1 cup diced dried ginger

1 cup dried pineapple, re-hydrated

2 cups coconut flakes, unsweetened

1/2 cup chia seeds, soaked in 1 1/2 cups water

1/4 cup coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup raw honey

1/4 cup maple syrup

2 Tbsp whole flax seeds

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


After the oats are done soaking, drain, and rinse them under cool water for 2 minutes.

Use your fingers to agitate them while rinsing.

Hand squeeze the excess water from them and place them in a large bowl.




Drain and discard the soak water from the almond and pumpkin seeds.  Add to bowl.

To rehydrate the dried ginger and pineapple, place them in a bowl and cover with hot water.  Allow them to sit for at least 10 minutes.

This will help them to soften and absorb the other flavors of the granola.

Once they soften, drain the soak water.




Combine all of the ingredients in a large bowl and mix until everything is well coated.

Spread mixture out on the non-stick sheets that came with your dehydrator.

Dehydrate everything at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hours.

At the half mark remove the teflex sheets, allowing the granola to continue drying on the mesh sheets until it is dry.

Dry times will always vary depending on the climate, humidity, and how thick or thin you spread the mixture.




Once done and cooled, break the granola up and store it in a glass container.  The shelf life will depend on how dry or moist you leave your granola.  The more moisture left in the granola, the shorter the shelf life.  I tend to make up quart size bags of it and store them in the freezer.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



