Raw Nut House Granola
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/nut-house-granola/



	Nut House Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

There are a couple of ways that you can approach this recipe.  As you will notice below in the ingredient list that I used soaked & dehydrated nuts.

I am in the habit of always soaking & dehydrating all the nuts and seeds that I bring into the house.  That way they are ready for instant recipe inspirations and ready for my forever-grazing husband. :)

If this isn’t the case for you and you are starting off with nuts and seeds that haven’t been soaked yet, you can just soak them and then proceed with the recipe. It will make the batter a little bit wetter than mine was but that’s ok.  It just might take longer to dehydrate.

Feel free to swap out any of the nuts or dried fruits.  You can even use different sweeteners just try to stick close to the same viscosity as the ones I chose.

I love making nut-based granolas because who doesn’t love the big crunch you get from nuts? I didn’t muddy up the recipe with too many different flavored sweeteners or spices.  I wanted the individual flavor of each nut to shine through.

Granolas are not only great for creating ahead of time for a pantry staple, but it also makes for an excellent gift.  As you can see in the photo, I made up some labels, slapped them on a bag, and prettied it up with a bow for Christmas gifts.  If you don’t have fancy bags, granolas look great in mason jars or even decorated brown lunch bags.

Ingredients:

Yields 2 trays – 12 cups dried


1 cup raw buckwheat, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw cashews, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw pecans, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup organic coconut

1 cup dried, diced apricots

1/4 cup raw coconut crystals

1/2 cup maple syrup

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


If using soaked and dehydrated nuts;

In a large bowl combine the buckwheat, cashews, almonds, walnuts, pecans, coconut, apricots, coconut crystals, maple syrup, cinnamon, and salt.  Basically… everything. :)  Mix well with your hands.




If starting off with unsoaked nuts;

Follow the link if you need assistance on how long to soak them for.  After soaking, drain and discard the soak water.  Add the remaining ingredients and mix well.




Spread the batter out on the mesh sheets that come with the dehydrator.  I just let it drop off my fingertips onto the mesh sheet.  I didn’t force or spread it flat.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and dry for 8 hours or until thoroughly dried.

Once cooled, store in air-tight containers.

On the countertop, I would give it about 7 days.

Fridge… 14 days and in the freezer… up to 3 months.







The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Raw Coconut Crystals add a “brown sugar” flavor to a recipe.  Read about it (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



