Salt & Pepper Pistachio Olive Oil Granola (raw, GF, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/salt-pepper-pistachio-olive-oil-granola/



	Salt & Pepper Pistachio Olive Oil Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

As some of you are aware the whole purpose of this site is to encourage you to add healthier foods into your diet, helping you to crowd out the junk food.

I hope through this site that you find inspiration and guidance on how to make wonderful tasting whole food recipes, learn how to use raw ingredients in place of processed foods, and along the way… learn new and fun techniques to make your life easier.


I answer every email and comment that comes through Nouveau Raw.  Sometimes I know the answers to the questions, sometimes I have to research or do my own experiments to see if I can come up with the answer.  That is what prompted this recipe.

I received a question from DJ who wanted to know if a person could use olive oil in place of coconut oil in granola recipes. My answer was that I assumed so, but I didn’t feel comfortable in just assuming and leaving a person hanging for a solid answer.  So, off I went to the kitchen to test it out.  The end result… I LOVE IT!  I don’t love the olive oil by itself but I love the flavor profile that it added to the granola.

This recipe turned out to be one of my favorites and I am a granola lover.  There are many levels of flavor; it is savory, salty, peppery, earthy with a very little hint of sweetness from the pistachio nuts. Thank you, DJ.  Without your question, I may have never really explored olive oil in my granola recipes.

P.S. I originally published this recipe on 10/14/12 but I updated the photos and cleaned up the “preparation” section, bringing my recipe writing skills to current. :) Oct. 24th, 2015…. signing off, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 8 cups dried granola


2 1/2 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked

1 cup buckwheat, soaked

1 cup salted pistachios, roughly chopped if large

1 cup raisins



1/2 cup date pate

1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil

1/4 cup water

1/2 tsp liquid stevia

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp coarse black pepper

1/4 tsp Allspice seasoning


Preparation:



After soaking the oats and buckwheat, drain and discard the soak water.  Rinse each one for 2 minutes under cool water, using your fingers to agitate them.

In a large bowl combine; oats, buckwheat, pistachios, raisins, date paste, oil, water, stevia, salt, cinnamon, black pepper, and allspice.  With your hands, mix well to ensure everything gets well mixed.

If you can’t find Allspice you can make your own by combining the following in a small jar; 2 tsp parts cinnamon, 1 tsp ground clove, 1 tsp black pepper, and 1 tsp ground nutmeg. Put the lid on and shake.

To keep fully raw, use raw pistachios.




Drop clusters of the granola onto the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8 hours or until dry. This granola appears to remain a little chewy rather than snappy crunchy.

The dry time will vary depending on the climate, humidity, model of the dehydrator, and how full it is.




Cool to room temperature and store in an airtight container.   You can also extend the shelf life by freezing it.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Click (here) to learn why I use stevia.

Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.















© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



