Chocolate Chip Banana Bread Granola (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/chocolate-chip-banana-bread-granola/



	Chocolate Chip Banana Bread Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Do you ever have those nights where your brain is racing? Mine often does just that… far too often in fact. It’s as though I have a fully loaded ten lane race track going on in there! It got even worse when I started my quest to get more sleep.  I had always claimed to be a night owl who had the split personality of a rooster… meaning; I always wake up really early regardless of when I go to bed.

But I know the power behind getting enough sleep. I know that sleep is crucial for my body to heal, rejuvenate, and do all those unknown tasks that aim to keep our body healthy. But I was never good at making a practice out of it. I have made many attempts… all left me counting sheep until the cows came home.

But that was until one day I decided something had to change. “Gosh, golly geez whiz Amie Sue!! I am going to do it! I am going to start going to bed earlier!” I said this to myself with such enthusiasm every night as I crawled into bed at 1:00 am. *hangs head in shame* Soon, with enough determination, I started to go to bed earlier in 30-minute increments. Instead of 1:00 am, I went to bed at 12:30, then 12, then 11:30 pm… you get the idea.  I was secretly tricking myself.

It wasn’t easy; I would lay in bed… Blink, blink…I really should research about Vitamin K…blink blink…I really need to make sure I answered all my website comments…blink blink…Good golly I need a vacation…blink blink…What should I make with all those bananas…so many thoughts!

Over the years I have learned a few things about myself and this body that I am currently occupying.  For starters, I have to now stop all kitchen work by 6:00 pm. That means, no recipe making, developing, or anything.  Dishes must be done and put away by then. Any later and it messes up my sleep.

Next, I need to close my laptop by 8:00 pm.  This practice alone has made a noticeable difference for me.  If I can adhere to these two things faithfully, my body starts to fall into a rhythm.  I have also found that when it’s a full moon… forget all the tricks… I am up for the night. I don’t even fight it anymore.  The moon and I stay up all night and stare at one another.

What does any of this have to do with this granola recipe? Not a darn toot n’ thing. I just can’t sleep.  It’s 11:30 pm. Yea I know, I know! It’s all my fault. I worked on a recipe until 6:45 pm… I didn’t shut my laptop down till 9:00 pm and it’s a FULL MOON!  I think I will wrap this up and lay in bed next to my loving husband who falls asleep within 30 seconds of laying his head on the pillow… every night. Even when there is a full moon. Hehe, Good night my friends. I hope you enjoy the recipe and have a blessed day. amie sue

Ingredients:


2 cups raw walnuts, chopped, soaked & dehydrated

1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raisins

3/4 cup raw chocolate chips or store-bought

4 cups (441 g) chopped, organic apples, pulsed

3 cups (372 g) chopped organic apples, blended

2 ripe (165 g)  bananas, blended

2 Tbsp raw sunflower nut butter (or your choice of nut butters)

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/4 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar for vegan

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

2 ripe bananas, diced


Preparation:

Prepare the batter:


In the food processor pulse the walnuts, cinnamon, and salt together…  breaking them down into medium-sized chunks. Place in a large bowl.

Be careful that you don’t over-process the walnuts.  They will start to release too much of their natural oils which can make for an oily mixture.

Walnuts won’t break down to a flour-like texture, just to a small crumble which is what you want.

By adding the cinnamon and salt early on, it will ensure that their flavors will get well dispersed within the batter.




Add to the; oats, raisins, and chocolate chips to the walnuts and mix well.

You can use raw homemade chocolate chips or store-bought ones.

If you use raw, you will want to add them after the granola is done drying. Otherwise, they will melt.

If you use store-bought ones, they can be added right into the batter and then dehydrated.  They will get soft but will firm up once the granola cools down.  These days, there are many different chocolate chips on the market. Gluten-free, dairy-free, soy-free, organic, fair-trade… you name it. Use whatever you feel comfortable with.




Pulse 4 cups of apples in the food processor and transfer to the bowl with the walnuts.

Be sure to leave small chunks for texture purposes.

If the apples are organic, leave the skins on. Otherwise, peel them.




Back in the food processor, blend; 3 more cups of apples, 2 bananas, sunflower butter, vanilla, honey, and ground flax until smooth and creamy.  Pour into the large bowl with the pulsed apples and walnuts.

Add 2 diced bananas and mix well with your hands.

Let the batter rest for 15 minutes for the flax to activate and thicken up the batter.  The flax works as a binder.


Dehydrate:


Line the dehydrator sheets with non-stick sheets.

Drop the mixture in small clusters on the sheets.

Do not have them any thicker than 1″ or the dry time will increase.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 10+ hours, until completely dry.

Dry time will vary based on the climate, humidity, how thick the batter is spread out, etc.  So use the dry time as a guideline.




Be sure all the moisture is removed to increase shelf-life.


Storage:


Store in airtight mason jars for 2-3 weeks or so..

Store in the freezer for up to 3 months.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



