Almond Banana Nut Clusters
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/almond-banana-nut-clusters/



	Almond Banana Nut Clusters

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Every time my husband and I travel, I pack some healthy snacks for our adventure.  Personally, I am not much of a snacker, but my husband is an all-day grazer… ALL DAY! :)  And that being the case, I love making sure that his snack drawer is well stocked.

He loves all of the raw granolas that I make, but I learned that he never wants to eat them as cereal per se, so with that in mind, I like to make large clusters so that they are easier to grab and go.

I will tell you that this recipe has a trick up its sleeve.  I had it in the dehydrator for almost 24 hours, and when I pulled the dehydrator out to test it, it still felt a bit sticky.  But once it cooled, it firmed right up… but has a soft-chew to it.

I didn’t want to dry it out, as we like it with a little chew, so in our book, it turned out perfect.  I didn’t chop up the nuts for this recipe; I left them whole to give the cluster a more hardy texture.   But I want you to “own” this recipe, making it just the way that you like it… soft, chewy, big and crunchy or small and dainty.  Regardless of the shape and size… the taste will amaze you.

As you might notice in the ingredient list, I state to soak the nuts before adding them to the recipe. If you already have these nuts soaked, dehydrated, and in the pantry… go ahead and use those without soaking them again.  The main thing is that the nuts have been soaked to help reduce the phytic acid. This will make it much easier on your digestive system.

If you don’t own a dehydrator and wish to bake this recipe… please let me know how it goes. I have many readers who are in this situation and need to use their oven for drying purposes.  If you wish to keep this recipe as raw as possible, turn the oven on the lowest setting, crack the door and run a fan with the air blowing past the oven front.  When baking, keep a watchful eye on the nut clusters making sure they don’t burn.  Document the time for future batches.  I hope you all enjoy this recipe.

P.S I first created this recipe and shared it on July 21st, 2013.  My husband had a craving for these, so I made them today (October 24th, 2015). While I was at it, I took a few new photos and cleaned up the preparation instructions.  My recipe writing skills have greatly improved throughout the years. :) Blessings! amie sue



Ingredients:

Yields roughly 14 cups nut clusters

Dry Ingredients:


1 1/2 cups raw almonds, soaked

1 cup raw pecans, soaked

1 cup raw, rolled oats, soaked

1/2 cup raw walnuts, soaked

1 cup raisins

1/2 cup hemp seeds


Wet Ingredients:


4.4 oz dried bananas, rehydrated

3/4 cup maple syrup

1/2 cup raw almond butter

2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

6 Medjool dates, pitted


Preparation:

Dry ingredients:


Prep work: soak the nuts and oats.  Click on the link provided above to learn how if you are new to this concept.

Note: Hemp seeds don’t require soaking, click (here) to read why.

After the nuts are done soaking, drain, and rinse them before adding them to the recipe.

Once the oats are done soaking, these need a very good rinsing.  This takes a little bit but rinse them under cool water for 2 minutes.  Squeeze the excess water from them before adding to the recipe.




Place the almonds, pecans, oats, walnuts, raisins, and hemp seeds in a large bowl and set aside.


Wet ingredients:


Rehydrate the bananas by covering them with enough warm water for about 15 minutes.

Once ready to use, drain the soak water.

This helps to soften them a little for combining.

Fresh bananas will change the texture of this granola. Feel free to experiment.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade combine the sweetener, almond butter, cinnamon, salt, dates, and bananas.  Process until it is nice and smooth.  Set aside.


Assembly:


Pour the wet ingredients over the dry ingredients and mix well.  This mixture is STICKY!

Sprinkle the batter in clusters onto the teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator.

I use the Excalibur 9 tray.

If you don’t have teflex sheets, you can use parchment paper, but steer clear of wax paper!  Your batter will stick to it.




Dehydrate for 1 hour at 145 (F) degrees then reduce to 115 (F) degrees, continuing to dry for about 4 hours or until it is dry enough to move the clusters over to the mesh sheet.

Removing it from the teflex will help speed up the dry time.

Continue to dry until desired dryness is reached.




Allow the granola cluster to thoroughly dry before storing.

Store in an airtight container on the counter for 7 days, in the fridge for 1 month, and in the freezer for 3 months.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn how to make your own raw almond butter by clicking (here).

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



