Caramel Apple Granola (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/granola/caramel-apple-granola/



	Caramel Apple Granola

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe makes a very large batch.  I created this recipe for gift giving but feel free to down-size the measurements if you don’t want to make this much.  It does freeze well if you like to “batch-cook.”

You can make this recipe with everything soaked and dehydrated (which I did) or just soak and drain them, using them wet in the recipe.

I am in the habit of always soaking and dehydrating my nuts, seeds, and grains so I can be prepared for creating recipes when inspiration hits me. :)  If you use “wet ingredients” the dry time may take a bit longer, and they dry in clusters, which isn’t a bad thing.

As far as substituting ingredients out, feel free to use any dried fruit, nuts or seeds.  If you don’t want to use oats, I would recommend checking out my other granola recipes.

Sweeteners are always an area of controversy… so please feel free to use whatever sweetener that you are comfortable with.  If you do use something else, I recommend adding 1/2 of the measured amount and start taste testing since each one has a different level of sweetness.

I choose to use lucuma because of the health benefits, the flavor, and the hint of sweetness that it also adds.  It’s all about layering in the flavors.  You can omit it and perhaps just replace it with more shredded coconut if you want.

Lastly, I added my raw caramel sauce to this recipe since I had some on hand.  If you want to skip this process, you use more raw date paste in its place.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields 28 cups chunky granola

Dry ingredients:


6 cups gluten-free rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated

2 cups raw buckwheat, soaked & dehydrated

2 cups raw chopped pecans, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw cashews, soaked & dehydrated

2 cups raisins

2 cups shredded coconut


Wet ingredients:


1 cup raw date paste

1/2 cup raw lucuma powder

1/2 cup maple syrup

1 cup water

1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 large apples, diced

3/4 cup raw caramel sauce


Preparation:


If using just soaked oats, once they are done soaking, drain and rinse them under cool water for 2 minutes.

Use your fingers to agitate them while rinsing.

Hand squeeze the excess water from them and place them in a large bowl.




In a very large bowl combine the oats, buckwheat, raisins, coconut, pecans, and cashews.  Toss together.

In a separate bowl combine the date paste, lucuma, maple syrup, water, cinnamon, salt, diced apple, and caramel sauce.   Whisk together.  I kept the skins on my apples since they were organic.

Pour the sauce into the dry ingredients and mix well with your hands.

Spread the batter out on the mesh sheets that come with the dehydrator.  I just let it drop off my fingertips onto the mesh sheet.  I didn’t force or spread it flat.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and dry for 8 hours or until thoroughly dried.

Once cooled, store in air-tight containers.  On the countertop, I would give it about 7 days.  Fridge… 14 days and in the freezer… up to 3 months.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



