Chocolate Spider Pots (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/chocolate-spider-pots/



	Chocolate Spider Pots

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This dessert was “spooktacular”, and it turned out to be a group favorite.  Rich, velvety smooth, deep, dark chocolate pudding. Nobody will catch on that it is raw, vegan, gluten-free, or nut-free.  With each indulgent bite, you will be filling their bellies with nutrients that will course through their bodies.

To be open and honest, I never was a fan of Halloween in my younger adult years. As a child, I recall enjoying the candy and dressing up a few times, but never really got into the whole Halloween spirit of decorating.

That was until Bob came into my life and one day he asked me if I would be willing to host a Halloween party. Truthfully, I drug my feet like a child heading to the doctors to get a shot. But, I love doing things for my husband so dove in headfirst.

That was eight years ago and to this day… I love throwing Halloween parties. They get crazier and scarier with each passing year.  I have equally as much fun creating the large spread of food for everyone as well as I do decorating.  In fact, it brings together my top passions in life.

I think I enjoy it so much because it reminds me that Thanksgiving and Christmas are just around the corner, and I love them even MORE! I especially love this time of year because of all the creativity, fun projects, and recipes that are found and can be made.  And the fact that others gather around to share them with you.

When making this pudding, keep in mind that it is very rich so when serving it up, do so in a small fashion. People tend to “over plate, ” and there is no reason to send people home with a belly ache from eating too much of a good thing.  This recipe creates four cups worth, o if you don’t own a high-powered blender such as a Vitamix or Blendtec, I encourage you to break this into 2 batches so you don’t overheat your blender.  The last tip that I want to share is to make sure that you use perfectly ripe avocados.  They can make or break this recipe.

Under-ripe avocados are bitter and that flavor will shine through in the aftertaste. We don’t want to leave that memory lingering on their tongue.  If you are uncertain on how to select a ripe avocado, please click (here) to read a quick post that I did regarding avocados. I hope you have fun with this recipe. Please leave comments below and have a blessed day, amie sue



Ingredients:

Pudding yields 4 cups




1 cup  Medjool dates, soaked

1 cup maple syrup

2 tsp vanilla extract

3 cups mashed avocados, ripe only

1 1/2 cups raw cacao powder

1 cup water


Chocolate spiders:


1/2 cup melted raw cacao butter

1/4 cup raw cacao powder

1 Tbsp + 1 tsp mesquite powder

1 tsp maple syrup


chocolate spider mold



Preparation:

Pudding:


If the dates are really dry and tough, re-hydrate them in enough warm water to cover them.

Be sure to remove the pits first and inspect the insides for possible mold.

Once the dates are soft, drain the water and hand-squeeze the excess water from them.




In the food processor or blender,  combine the dates, sweetener, and vanilla until nice and smooth.

Add the mashed avocados and cacao powder.  Blend until nice and smooth, stopping the processor every once in a while to scrape the sides down.

Add the water and blend until nice and creamy.

The pudding will keep for 3-5 days in the fridge so you can make it up ahead of time.

To create the dessert cups;  place the pudding in a piping bag and fill each container.

This method gives you complete control and a beautiful presentation.

Place a chocolate spider on top.




Serve chilled or at room temperature.


Chocolate spider:


Whisk the powders and maple syrup into the cacao butter until thoroughly combined.

Allow the melted chocolate to cool just a tad so it starts to firm up and won’t ooze out of the piping bag too quickly.

Pour the chocolate into a piping bag or squeeze bottle that has a very small tip on it.  This will give you better control.

Fill the chocolate mold and place it in the freezer for 15 minutes to firm up.

Once firm, turn the mold over and give it a slight twist so the chocolates fall out of the mold.




Place one spider on each chocolate pudding dessert.


 

 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



