Halloween Crustless Pumpkin Party Cheesecakes
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/halloween-crustless-pumpkin-party-cheesecakes/



	HALLOWEEN Crustless Pumpkin Party Cheesecakes

													    
    


				




`~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, grain-free ~

Halloween is nearly here, so grocery stores, coffee shops, and bakeries are loaded with pumpkin-flavored treats, from muffins to lattes to ravioli…. and in my case, Crustless Pumpkin Party Cheesecakes.

So what the connection between pumpkins and Halloween?  Growing up, I didn’t care a whole lot about pumpkin pie, but I did look forward to carving funny faces into them.

Over time the pumpkin carving phenomena grew into a multi-million dollar industry which caused farmers to examine the specific types of pumpkins they planted specifically growing them for carving.

A Massachusetts farmer John Howden developed the Howden pumpkin in the 1960s. It is considered the original commercial jack-o’-lantern pumpkin and is still the most popular carving pumpkin in America. They have thick stems, shallow ribs, and thin flesh which makes them ideal for Halloween.

So now that we know that all pumpkins are not ideal for carving… it’s also important to know that not all pumpkins are perfect for eating either. Granted all pumpkins are edible, just that some types are tastier than others.

When shopping for fresh pumpkins, look for the ones labeled “sugar pumpkins” or “pie pumpkins.” Depending on where you live you might find other great ones referred to as; Baby Pam, Autumn Gold, Kabocha (my all-time favorite to roast), Ghost Rider, New England Pie Pumpkin, Lumina (which are white), Cinderella, and Fairy Tale.

If you are pressed for time or resources, you can use canned pumpkin puree. Look for cans that are BPA-free, organic, and with no other ingredients. This puree won’t be raw, but it will still create a wonderful healthy dessert.  I tend to stock up on sugar pumpkins, puree them, and freeze them for year-round use.

For our Annual Halloween Party this year, I served up sample sizes of all the raw desserts that I made for our guests. I wanted them to have a fair chance of being able to taste test each and every one of them… which out overdosing them with these rich, nutrient-dense, treats.  They freeze beautifully, which allows you to prepare them well in advance, thus taking stress and pressure off of you as you create other delectable desserts. I hope you enjoy these little gems. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields: 21 servings (3 Tbsp (50 g) per cup)

3 cups (400 g) raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2/3 cup (200 g) maple syrup

1 cup (240 g) pumpkin puree

3/4 cup (165 g) water

1 Tbsp (14 g) vanilla extract

2 tsp (6 g) pumpkin spice

1/4 tsp (1 g)  liquid stevia

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup (100 g) raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

3 Tbsp (19 g)  sunflower lecithin powder or liquid


Topping

44 whole, raw pecans,  soaked, dehydrated


Preparation:


Drain the soaked cashews and discard the soak water.  Place in a high-speed blender.

You can skip the soaking process if pressed for time. If you do, you can omit the lecithin, though I still recommend it for the health benefits.

Soaking the cashews will make them softer to blend and reduce the phytic acid in them.

Do not skip the soaking process if you don’t own a high powered blender.




In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, maple syrup, pumpkin puree, water, vanilla, pumpkin spice, stevia (optional), and salt.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.

If you don’t have pumpkin spice mix on hand, click (here) to see how to make it.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.  The batter will start to thicken.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Place the party cups on a baking sheet with edges. This will help with transporting them to the fridge or freezer.

I use cambros in my kitchen. They fit nicely into the fridge or freezer and come with air-tight lids. You can pick them up at a restaurant supply store.

I used Mini Square Cubes 2 oz party cups.




Pour 3 Tbsp of the filling into each party cup.

Lightly tap the pan on the countertop to help work out any air bubbles that may be trapped in the batter.




Place 2 pecans on top of each cheesecake

Chill in the fridge overnight to set up or in the freezer for 4-6 hours.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



