Rosemary Bread
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/halloween-rosemary-bread-bones/



	Rosemary Bread “Bones”  Halloween

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Right now, I am preparing and creating recipes for our up-and-coming Halloween Party.  And I decided to serve raw bones!  Haha  Sorry, I couldn’t pass that up, it fit so perfectly.  I try to make at least 80% of my dishes raw for our guests.  They always love them and rarely know that they are raw and healthy, so why not!? :)

I wanted to make a dish that resembled “bones, breadsticks” and I must say that I think I pulled it off!  If their appearance turns you off, just close your eyes and think breadsticks!

They taste amazing dipped into a Raw Cherry Tomato Marinara Sauce.  I used a Wilton’s Nonstick Bone Mold that is really meant for baking for this project.  I found mine at my local Michael’s Craft Store.  I can’t find the exact mold I used anymore but here’s an alternative (here). It took me several attempts to figure out the best way to get my raw bone dough out of the mold!  I pressed the bread into the mold and flipped it over to see if it would happily release NOPE!  I wiped the mold with a thin coating of coconut oil and flipped it over to see if it would happily release NOPE!  I wiped the mold with a thin coating of coconut oil, placed it in the freezer to chill, hoping it would just pop out…NOPE!  I begged I pleaded, I got down on my knees…NOPE!  Finally!  I figured it out.  I took some plastic wrap and pressed it into the mold, then pressed the dough it, then I flipped the tray over and out came the “bones”!  Yea!  I may be slow in figuring things out from time to time, but by golly, I gotter’ dun!

 

Ingredients:


    2 cups almond pulp

    1 cup oat flour  (see below)

   1/2 cup Irish moss paste

    1/4 cup date paste

    1/4 cup flax meal (see below)

    3 Tbsp raw coconut flour

    1 Tbsp lemon juice

    3 Tbsp fresh ground rosemary

    1 tsp sea salt


Preparation:


Making oat flour:  first make your oat flour by putting raw, gluten-free oats in your food processor and processing until it reaches a fine flour consistency.

Add flax meal (made by grinding flax seeds in a coffee grinder or Bullet), coconut flour, rosemary, and salt.  Pulse till mixed.  Put batter into a large bowl.

Add almond pulp, Irish moss, date paste, and lemon juice.  Blend till everything is well incorporated.  I use my hands.  Depending on how moist your almond pulp is, you may need to add water so the dough sticks together nicely.  If you do, add one Tbsp at a time.

Shape into the desired size.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for about 8 hours.  Check-in on them around 4-6 hours.  You don’t want to dry them too much or they will be rough on the palate.

Store in a sealed container in the fridge to extend their shelf life.




 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



