Halloween Cranberry Pumpkin Spiced Meltaways
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/aged-cranberry-pumpkin-spiced-meltaways/



	“Aged” Cranberry Pumpkin Spiced Meltaways

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~




Looking for a quick, easy, delicious, nutritious treat to whip up for Halloween?  Look no further… these Cranberry Pumpkin Spiced Meltaways will not let you down.




As you are preparing for a large gathering, these come in handy because you can make these up ahead of time and keep them stored in the freezer until the day of the party.




One meltaway will provide 3-4 dainty bites and two manly bites.  The perfect size to satisfy the sweet tooth without leaving you feeling guilty or sugared-out.




The key to creating the meltaway texture is all in the flour texture.  I didn’t just toss whole almonds into the food processor.  Instead, I used a fine ground almond flour that is made from almond pulp.  I will provide a link down below on how to make that if you are uncertain.




If you are pressed for time or do not eat 100% raw, you can use store-bought flour.  Do the best you can, where you are in this journey of healthier eating.




Coating these sweet treats in chocolate is an option, they have a wonderful, slightly sweet flavor without.  In the past when I have shared these with others, most people have voted for the chocolate covered ones.





For a little decor, I sprinkled raw coconut crystals on top. For Halloween, I wanted to make them look a smidgen spooky. In order to do this, I exposed them to moisture after they were set in chocolate.  This causes the chocolate to bloom, giving them that aged, creepy look.

I hope you have fun with this treat and make sure to share them with loved ones. I would love to hear what you think down below in the comment section. Blessings, amie sue


 Ingredients: 

Yields 30 (1 Tbsp) cookies

Dry Ingredients:



1  1/2 cups (175 g) fine almond flour or raw almond flour

1  1/2 cups (150 g) dried shredded coconut, unsweetened

1/4 cup (48 g) raw coconut flour

1 tsp (3 g) ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 Tbsp(8 g) pumpkin spice

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup (60 g) finely chopped dried cranberries




Wet Ingredients:


1/4 cup (40 g) melted coconut oil

6 Tbsp (100 g) organic Grade-A maple syrup

1/4 cup (40 g)  fresh orange juice

1 Tbsp (7 g) vanilla extract



Optional ~ Decorating with Chocolate Ingredients:


Hardening Chocolate recipe or 1 1/2 cups Vegan Organic Chocolate Chips (melted)




Preparation:



In the food processor fitted with the “S” blade, combine the: almond flour, shredded coconut, coconut flour, cinnamon, pumpkin spice, and salt.  Pulse together making sure all the spices get mixed in well.

If you don’t have Pumpkin spice, you can make your own by mixing the following ingredients in a jar: Yields 1 tsp: 1/2 tsp cinnamon, 1/4 tsp ground ginger, 1/8 tsp ground allspice or ground cloves, and 1/8 tsp ground nutmeg.

If at all possible, use a fine almond flour for the best mouth texture. They are called Meltaways for a reason. :)




Add the coconut oil, maple syrup, orange juice, vanilla, and cranberries. Process until the batter starts to roll into a ball while spinning.

To shape place, 1 Tbsp of dough in the palm of your hand, and with them cupped, roll the dough into a ball shape.

Place the balls in a single layer on a safe freezer tray.  Place in the freezer while you make the chocolate.  This will help the chocolate instantly set up on the ball during the dipping process.

When the chocolate is ready, dip each ball into it and place it on a cookie sheet that has been lined with parchment paper.

Sprinkle raw coconut crystals on top and leave them out at room temp overnight to encourage the chocolate to bloom, giving it that aged, creepy look.

These will keep for a week or longer on the counter and can also be stored in the freezer for 1-3 months.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



