Dried Skin Flakes (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/dried-skin-flakes/



	Dried Skin Flakes

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I know the title sounds a bit gross… change it up as you see fit.. but this is for you Halloween food presenters who like to create a goolish table setting.  I don’t mean to offend anyone by the title.  Remember, this is just for fun.

I am always looking for raw food with a “crunch” to it for my salads or just for a snack.   These little morsels taste heavenly! Coconut “Bacon” Bits are fantastic.   I will admit that they don’t taste 100% like bacon bits but pretty darn close.

As they are drying out in the dehydrator, it will fill your house with the smell of bacon, though!  They are highly addictive.  You can taste a bit of coconut, but regardless, they are yummy.

Are you questioning the use of liquid smoke?

Liquid smoke is what gives the coconut that rustic, bacon / BBQ flavor. How is it made? Hickory and a little mesquite are burned at a low temperature; then, the smoke is captured and diverted into a tunnel.

In the tunnel, a constant stream of distilled water is channeled through the smoke to pick up the flavor. The liquid is then filtered to remove any sediment or oil before bottling. There are no other additional ingredients! It is nothing but smoke-infused water, with no additives of any kind.

 Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


3 cups large flake, unsweetened coconut

1 Tbsp liquid smoke

2 Tbsp Coconut Aminos

1 Tbsp water

1 Tbsp maple syrup or raw agave nectar


Preparation:


Place all of the ingredients in a medium-sized bowl and with your hands mix everything until the coconut is well coated.

Spread the mixture on the non-stick sheet that comes with your dehydrator and dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for 4-6 hours or until crispy.

Store in a glass sealed container.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



