Keylime Pudding (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/keylime-pudding/



	Keylime Pudding

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This pie is a true, mouth-watering treat!  A true crowd pleaser. Ever since I have known Bob, he has been on the hunt for the “perfect” key-lime pie. Most fall short of his expectations … until this glorious recipe came along.

Perfection has been discovered!  This is a staple dessert and one that Bob always requests.  I rarely make it in a 9″ pie pan though.  These days I either use small Springform pans, 3 oz Dixie cups, or equivalent.

This time around, I made them for a Halloween buffet table that I pulled together for a large party.  In the spirit of Halloween, I changed the name to something gooly… but you can always change that up. It’s all in the spirit of just having fun.

Why I add sunflower lecithin.

Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support healthy function of the brain, nervous system and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints; helps break up cholesterol in the body. It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.

I prefer the raw sunflower lecithin powder.  Setting aside all the nutritional benefits, it is a natural emulsifier that binds the fats from nuts with water creating a creamy consistency.

Not only is this pie is rich and delicious, but it is also nut-free.  I will now release you to go play in the kitchen.  Have fun and let me know if you try this recipe!

Ingredients:

Yields 25 (3oz servings)

Filling:


1 1/2 cup of heavy Thai coconut milk

1/3 cup ripe avocado, mashed

3/4 cup raw agave nectar

1 squirt liquid NuNaturals Stevia

1 cup key lime juice (or 3/4 cup lime juice and 1/4 cup lemon juice)

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup raw coconut oil, warmed to liquid

3 Tbsp lecithin powder


Topping:


1 1/2 cup of heavy Thai coconut milk

3/4 cup Thai coconut meat

1/2 cup raw agave nectar

1 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp lecithin powder

1/2 cup coconut oil, warmed to liquid

lemon or lime slices for garnish


Preparation:

Filling:


Put the coconut milk and avocado in the blender with the agave lime juice and salt and process until the mixture is smooth.

Add the lecithin and coconut oil while you have a good vortex going in the blender and process until smooth.

Pour mixture into the serving vessel and place in the fridge until firm, about 3 to 4 hours or overnight.


Topping:


Put all the ingredients, except the lecithin and the coconut oil, in a blender and blend until smooth.

Add the coconut oil and lecithin while you have a good vortex going in your blender and continue blending until creamy.

Pour the topping over the firm, chilled key lime base.

Garnish with lime zest.

These will keep for up to 5 days in the fridge, but can also be frozen for 1-3 months.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



