"Ear Wax" Vinegar and Dill Broccoli Nibblers (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/ear-wax-vinegar-and-dill-broccoli-nibblers/



	“Ear Wax” Vinegar and Dill Broccoli Nibblers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I know, I know, I can see all the wrinkled noses already. Dehydrated broccoli?!!  Go ahead and make a funny face, but as my great-grandmother used to warn me,  “Your face may stay that way!”  haha  Now, on a serious note, these nibblers are so wonderful.

They made for a fantastic Halloween food because they are green, wilted, and a tad gnarly looking.  On my table setting, I labeled them as “Ear Wax”  unappealing… for sure… but the guests got a real kick out of it.

I have been making them for several years now and just realized that I haven’t shared many of my nibbler recipes with you.  What is wrong with me?!  :)  I have made these for parties, fed them to kids, to SAD foodies… a wide variety of people, and so far everyone has loved them.  Some even say, more so than kale chips.  GASP!  :)

Dill is one of my all-time favorite herbs.  If I ever see a large container of it at the grocery store, you will find my nose buried deep in it.  I think it is the only time I stop to take a deep breath!

Dill is a unique plant in that both its leaves and seeds are used as seasonings.  The green leaves are wispy and fernlike and have a soft, sweet taste.  Dried dill seeds are light brown in color and oval in shape, featuring one flat side and one convex ridged side. The seeds are similar in taste to caraway, featuring a flavor that is aromatic, sweet and citrusy, but also slightly bitter.  I just learned that dill is an anti-bacterial spice.

The oil portion of dill has been studied for its ability to prevent bacterial overgrowth. In this respect, dill shares the stage with garlic, which has also been shown to have “bacteriostatic” or bacteria-regulating effects. I find this fascinating.  I am still learning so much about spices, not only does it tickle me that I am learning to use them in so many ways, but it also fascinates me to learn just how healthy so many of them can be.  In years past I only really gave thought to the nutrients contained in whole foods.  I never even entertained the idea that a pinch of a spice could enhance the health benefits of a dish.  Call me a late bloomer, but none the less, I am getting there. :)

So, please make these little nibblers.  I want you to trust me on this…. you will love them!

Ingredients:

yields 3 cups sauce


3/4 cup water

2 Tbsp lemon juice

1/4 cup raw apple cider vinegar

2 cups raw cashews, soaked for 2 to 3 hours

3 Tbsp dried dill

2 Tbsp dried chives

1 1/2 tsp black peppercorns (fresh ground)

1 1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

12 cups broccoli florets (hand tossed)


Preparation:


Prepare the broccoli.  Break it into medium-sized florets.  Snack size.  They will shrink a little bit during the drying process.  Set aside.

Using a high-speed blender, combine the following ingredients in this order:  water, lemon juice, apple cider vinegar, cashews, dill, chives, black pepper, and salt.

Blend until it creates a very smooth and creamy sauce.  This can take up to 5 minutes, depending on the blender.  Stop the blender every so often and scrape the sides down.  To test the creaminess, rub some of the sauce between your thumb and forefinger.  If you feel grit, continue blending.

Measure out 2 cups of sauce.   Store the remaining sauce in an air-tight container in the fridge.  It will last up to 5 days. Great for dipping veggies or flax crackers in!

Pour the sauce over the broccoli and gently massage in the sauce, making sure everything is well coated.

Place the broccoli on the teflex sheets that comes with the dehydrator.  You can place it on the mesh screen, but for ease of clean up, I recommend the teflex sheets.

Sprinkle the broccoli with salt.

Dehydrate the broccoli with the temperature set to 115 degrees (F) on the dehydrator for 6-8 hours, or until dry.

Store in an air-tight container on the counter.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



