Almond Butter Stuffed "Roaches" - Halloween
https://nouveauraw.com/halloween-recipes/almond-butter-stuffed-roaches-halloween/



	Stuffed “Roaches” Halloween

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Ok, Almond Butter Stuffed Roaches sounds downright disgusting.  I agree it does!  But it is kind of fun in a twisted, demented way, to walk around the Halloween Party asking the guests if they would like a Stuffed Roach.

Arranged on a platter with rubber toy roaches in among them is enough to make your skin crawl.  Gross as all get out, but gosh they sure did taste good. They were part of the Halloween ambiance and done with good humor.  The important thing is to know your audience.

I recommend Medjool dates that are fresh and plump. Be sure to inspect each date after you remove the pit.  Like all dried fruits, molds and critters can take up home in there. I don’t mean to gross you out yet again… but this is real life folks.

For the insides, you can make your own almond butter in the comfort of your own home. Click (here) to learn how. You can also use any nut butter to your liking inside.  We tend to use a lot of almond butter for not only the taste but nutritional reasons.

Almonds have monounsaturated fatty acids, dietary fiber, antioxidants, vitamins like riboflavin, and trace minerals such as magnesium. (2)  They are also a great source of vitamin E and other antioxidants that nourish the skin and reduce signs of aging.

I hope you enjoy this super simple recipe.  They go together quick which is perfect for those hosting parties.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:




40 Medjool dates

1/2 cup raw almond butter

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp vanilla


Preparations:


Prepare all the dates by making a slit along one side of the date with a sharp paring knife.

Be careful that you don’t cut the cut completely in half.  If you accidentally do, don’t worry about it too much, they will stick together in the end.




Remove the pit from each date and set aside.

Mix the almond butter, salt, and vanilla extract together in a bowl until everything is well combined.

Place the batter in a piping bag that has a medium-sized tip.

Place the piping tip at the end of the dates and squeeze the almond butter out making a strip along the slit.

Pinch shut.

Repeat with the remaining dates, and store in the refrigerator in an airtight container.  These will even freeze really well.  They don’t get hard, so they are great to pop out and enjoy as is.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				Slice open in half, don’t slice all the way through.
				
			
				
			
				
				Remove the pit and inspect the inside. 
				

			
				
			
				
				Pipe the almond butter inside. 
				
			
				
			
				
				Pinch shut and enjoy.
				

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



