Frankincense Whipped Coconut Oil Moisturizer
https://nouveauraw.com/health-beauty-home/frankincense-whipped-coconut-oil-moisturizer/



	Frankincense Whipped Coconut Oil Moisturizer

													    
    


				Frankincense has a delicious woody, spicy aroma and amazing skin regeneration properties.  It helps to improve skin tone and condition.

It is inherently astringent, so it acts as a balancer, reducing excess dryness or oiliness, returning the skin condition back to normal.   Not only will the effect of the oil being absorbed through the skin have many beautiful effects… the aroma also comes with healing properties.

It is said to give emotional strength and has a positive and calming effect on the mind and body. Emotional distress takes up a lot of energy, resulting in fatigue. Frankincense helps to push energy levels back up and beat depression.  If you do some research on this oil, you will find that there is a ton of amazing things that it does.

But not only does the Frankincense oil have amazing effects on the skin, so does coconut oil!  It is a moisturizer, antibiotic, multivitamin, multi-nutrient, nourishing, anti-aging, antiwrinkle and anti-oxidant – All in one!  Plus, it is completely natural too!

I used to use coconut oil on my face, but I found myself breaking out, so I gave up on it.  That was until I learned this small important bit of info… You must use Pure Virgin Coconut Oil!   Its melting point is 76 degrees (F) or 24 degrees (C), while Hydrogenated Coconut Oil melts at 97-104 degrees F or 36-40 degrees C.  This means that the virgin coconut oil melts and stays in liquid form at your body temperature and does not clog your pores as it is in the liquid form.  It literally melts into your skin.

A quick funny story…  as I have shared over the years, my sweet husband, Bob, is one of my faithful recipe taste testers.  I am forever following him with a spoon in my hand, asking him to take a taste.  I will track that man down no matter where he is… in the garage ~ taste test! in the orchard ~ taste test! In the shower ~ taste test!  Yep, it is true; he can’t escape me. Hehe  Well, the night I made this, I was pretty darn excited to see the whipped up version of coconut oil, and I knew Bob would too because he uses it daily on his skin too.

So, once I got it all packaged up in the jar, I started my call… “Honey!  You need to check this out!”  I found him in his reading chair, engrossed in some article.  He popped his head up just in time to see me slide the jar in front of him.   Before I could even mutter one word out, he took his finger, dipped it into the coconut oil and popped it into his mouth!  Lol  “Nooo!  Bob, it’s a moisturizer, don’t eat it!”  He smiled, shrugged and said, “Hmm, tastes good anyway!”  Oy-vey. Haha, I love that man.

Keep in mind; you could use any of your favorite essential oils in it or just use it plain.

Ingredients:

yields 1 cup


1 cup organic coconut oil

20 drops Frankincense essential oil (I use doTARRA)


Preparation:


Do not melt the coconut oil.  It won’t whip if it is in liquid form.

Measure 1 cup coconut oil and place it in a mixing bowl along with the essence oil.  You can use a hand-held mixer or a stand mixer.

Mix on high-speed for 8 minutes or until whipped into a light, airy consistency.  It won’t get super fluffy, but you will notice a difference in the texture.  Stop occasionally and with a spatula, scrape the sides.

Transfer the coconut oil moisturizer into a glass jar(s) and cover tightly. Store at room temperature. The whipped coconut oil should stay relatively soft.


 

 


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



