Vanilla Bean Body Butter
https://nouveauraw.com/health-beauty-home/vanilla-bean-body-butter/



	Vanilla Bean Body Butter

													    
    


				

This body butter is light, fluffy, and glides onto the skin. As you rub it in, it initially feels a little more on the oily side than a lotion. However, I find that it soaks in nicely.

Before we get into the ingredients list, I must warn you… you will be tempted (heavily) to lick the spatula while you are scooping it into the jars. It looks so beautifully, silky creamy like it belongs on a cake and in your tummy! Hehe, Therapeutic wise I decided on the following ingredients…

Shea Butter

Shea butter is also known as “Vitamin A Cream.” This is a pretty powerful vitamin for the skin. It aids in the skin’s natural collagen production and helps to protect, as well as nourish the skin to prevent drying. It’s great to help with bug bites, skin allergies, and even frostbite. (source)

Cacao Butter

Cocoa butter is the best salvation for people who have sensitive skin. Cocoa butter moisturizers are good at protecting skin from heat, healing such diseases as eczema and other problems. A cocoa buttercream will definitely help you keep your skin soft and supple.

According to Dr. Axe, “Cocoa butter contains compounds called cocoa mass polyphenols. Research shows that its polyphenols have several positive indicators for skin health, including improved skin elasticity and skin tone, better collagen retention/production, and better hydration.”

Jojoba Oil

This oil works by creating an oily layer on the top of the skin that traps water in the skin. It works on your face, neck, hands, feet, and hair.  I have been using jojoba oil for years now as a face cleaner of all things. One wouldn’t think that washing your face oil makes sense, but it works.

It removes dirt, makeup, and bacteria from your face. It’s even safe for cleaning eye makeup, and it’s hypoallergenic. I just put some in the palm of my hands, rub them together and then rub it over my face. I then remove it with a warm washcloth.  It is rich in iodine, which fights harmful bacteria growth that leads to breakouts. The antioxidants present in jojoba oil also helps to soothe fine lines, wrinkles, and naturally slow down other signs of aging.

Coconut Oil

Coconut oil is rich in protein which helps keep the skin healthy and rejuvenated, both internally and externally. These proteins also contribute to cellular health and tissue repair. Coconut oil contains Vitamin E, which soothes eczema, sunburn, and psoriasis, and its antiviral and antifungal benefits even help to treat bug bites.

Look for the words “unrefined,” “cold-pressed” or “crude.” This means that the product was extracted with natural methods that don’t overheat the ingredient during the process, thus destroying some of its nutrients.




Ingredients:


1/4 cup shea butter

1/4 cup cacao butter

1/4 cup coconut oil

1/4 cup organic jojoba oil

10-20 drops lemon essential oil

1/2 tsp almond extract

1 vanilla bean, seeds only





Preparation:

Melting in a double boiler:


Simmer a few inches of water in a saucepan and set a stainless steel bowl on top, making sure the bowl fits snugly.  Or use a double boiler if you have one) The water in the bottom pan shouldn’t be touching the top bowl.

Combine the shea butter, cacao butter, and coconut oil in the top bowl.

Gently melt and stir until the mixture is liquid.


Melting in the dehydrator: (this is what I do)


You will need a dehydrator that has a large cavity such as an Excalibur.  A stackable tray dehydrator won’t work.

Place the containers of the oils in the dehydrator and warm to liquid.

I find this method much easier as I don’t have to scoop out hard butters/oils from their jars… I just melt it all, use what is needed, return the lid and let it set back up until I get another wild hair to make body butter.


Whipping the body butter:


Once the oils have melted,  stir in the jojoba oil and allow the mixture to set up partially.

I placed mine in the freezer for a few minutes until it started to set up partially.

Be careful that you don’t let it stay in the freezer too long or it will totally harden.  Simple remelt it if it does.




Once the mixture is partially set, add the lemon essential oil extract and vanilla bean seeds, whip with a hand mixer or stand mixer until the body butter is fluffy and stiff peaks have formed.

If it blends creamy but isn’t getting fluffy,  slide the bowl in the fridge or freezer for a few more minutes, then continue to whip it.

There shouldn’t be any lumps in the body butter.

Be sure to scrape the sides down during the mixing process.

You will notice that the mixture is more on the yellow side when you first start but after whipping it, it turns white.




Spoon or pipe the creamy butter into a jar.

I like to pipe the body butter into the jars; this keeps everything clean.

I put a ziplock bag into a tall jar or glass and fold the opening of the bag over the edges of the jar.  I then put the butter in the bag, remove the bag, zip shut, and snip the bottom corner off of the bag.

Pipe into the jar, stop occasionally and tap the jar on the countertop to help settle the body butter into the jar.




In an air-tight jar, you can expect this body butter to stay fresh at room temp between 3-6 months.

Always use clean hands when scooping out the butter or use a plastic or wooden popsicle stick.

It is best to store the body butter in amber or cobalt colored jars as they protect the contents from sunlight which promotes oxidation.  If you use a clear jar, keep it out of the sunlight.

I am not 100% sure about the shelf life, but I guess if you use it on a regular basis it will keep just fine. :)
























© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



