Preserving and Purifying Face Mask
https://nouveauraw.com/health-beauty-home/preserving-and-purifying-face-mask/



	Preserving and Purifying Face Mask

													    
    


				

The month of January 2017 was sort of like a time warp for me. With the never ending winter storms providing us with enough snow, rain, and ice to last a lifetime… I (we) found myself (ourselves) spending a lot of time indoors.

In fact, I think we only went to town 4-5 times in the whole month? And that was only to stock up on rations and to take Bob to the doctor. He came down with something horrific, that zapped his health for well over three weeks. With Bob unable to do much of anything… I stepped up to the plate and took care of all the outside duties.

They ranged from plowing to shoveling to keeping the icicles under control and replenishing our fireplace wood stocks.  It brought me great joy to do this, so Bob didn’t have to worry or stress over things not getting done.

So how does this fit into my face mask post? Well, since I spent countless hours outside in frigid temps, it took a little toll on my skin.

I found myself taking more hot baths which stripped my skin of its natural moisture barrier. And while I was out in the cold weather that lacked humidity… it caused my skin to lose moisture even more rapidly.

So, I started to make sure that I was dressing more in layers to decrease my chills rather than having to reply on hot baths to warm me. I drank warm herbal teas, I stayed hydrated, and I pampered my skin with incredible nutrient filled masks such as this one.  I will be sharing the benefits of each ingredient used and will also give you just a few options on different essential oils that you can add to it if you wish.

Frankincense Essential Oil


Great for all skin types.

It has antibacterial and anti-inflammatory benefits, making it great for acne-prone skin.

It is also a natural toner, decreasing the appearance of pores and evening skin tone.

It encourages new cell growth, helping to tighten skin and reduce wrinkles and the appearance of scars.

And helps soothe chapped dry skin.


Geranium Essential Oil




Geranium essential oil helps regulate oil production and reduces acne breakouts.

It also helps improve skin elasticity and tighten skin, reducing the appearance of wrinkles.

And promotes blood circulation to the areas where it is applied, helping to heal bruises, broken capillaries, burns, cuts, dermatitis, eczema, ringworm, and other skin conditions.


Lavender Essential Oil


Great oil for all skin types.

Lavender essential oil smells amazing, helps you relax, and your body adapt to stress and has great benefits for the skin.

It helps regenerate skin cells so is great for mature skin, sun spots, and scarring.


Patchouli Essential Oil


Patchouli essential oil is particularly great for aging skin.

It promotes new cell growth and smooths the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.

Because it also has antiseptic, antifungal, and antibacterial properties, it can also benefit skin conditions such as eczema, dermatitis, psoriasis, and acne.


Rose Essential Oil


Rose essential oil is especially great for dry or aging skin.

Researchers have found that it contains several therapeutic compounds known to promote healing, especially antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory compounds.

Rose essential oil helps refine skin texture and tone and can be helpful in managing skin conditions such as psoriasis and dermatitis.


Ingredients:

yields 2-3 masks


2 Tbsp Irish moss gel

1 Tbsp vitamin C powder

2 drops Frankincense essential oil or desired oil


Preparation:


In a small bowl, stir together the Irish moss gel, vitamin C powder, and essential oil drops (if you decided to add them).

Apply a thick coating on your face and throat.

Rest for 30-45 minutes or until dry.

The thicker the coating, the longer it will take to dry.

This mask gets dry and tight. If you put it on your throat, don’t keep your head bent over while it dries… it will become so tight and painful to lift your head. Haha,  Ask me, I know. :)




When ready to remove, soak a washrag in warm water and bending over the sink, bring it to your face and let your face rest in the palm of your hands. Let the wet warmth soften the mask. Do not rub off. Be gentle with your skin.

Keep rinsing and rewetting the rag with warm water, repeating the whole process until your face and throat is clean.




You may notice a little redness at first, but it quickly fades.

This “recipe” makes 2-3 masks (depends on how much real-estate space you are covering :)

So either, do this with a friend or loved one.

Or you can put it in an airtight container and keep in the fridge for a week.

Or if you didn’t add essential oils to it, add a spoonful to your smoothie!





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



