Velvet Chocolate Pudding Pops (raw, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/velvet-chocolate-pudding-pops/



	Velvet Chocolate Pudding Pops

													    
    


				


~ raw, gluten-free, dairy-free ~

Unless my nifty little weather app says it’s snowing, it’s always a good time for one of these incredible, “omgosh-best you’ve-ever-had” frozen pudding pops. Seriously, if it’s not snowing, there’s just no excuse.  And even if it is snowing, just put on another layer of long johns, because these treats are worth it.

Right now, I want you to go straight to your freezer, open the door and dig around to see if you have a cardboard box of sugar-ladened-dye-infested popsicles and toss them. Yes, now and yes, toss them. I will wait. I care too much about you to allow you to keep feeding those things to yourself and/or your loved ones. Instead, this recipe and the many others in my Frozen Treat section… will keep you so satisfied and well-nourished.

I wish that you could taste this pudding pop online… right here, right now. Seriously, I do. But, since you can’t, for now, I’ll just stick with some pictures and a recipe so you can make them yourself.

The Experience

These pudding pops are so lusciously creamy, sinfully rich-tasting – the kind that makes all your taste buds stand up and do a happy dance… yet brilliantly healthy, raw, and vegan.

After eating a bit, I experienced what can only be described as an endorphin explosion. Wikipedia says that the word endorphin consists of two parts: endo- and -orphin; these are short forms of the words endogenous and morphine, intended to mean “a morphine-like substance originating from within the body.”[1] Yea, yea… that is what they created, released, and sent raging throughout my body. I was in my happy place. And to ensure that I wouldn’t be leaving that place anytime soon, I kept myself surrounded with pudding pops.

I am not blowing dandelion puffballs at you by making such strong statements about the taste/experience of this special treat… just ask Bob. He, too, was taken aback by just how delightful they were.  He kept repeating over and over that these were the ticket, and I needed to manufacture them. Hehe Well, enough. It’s time for you to hop up and get busy in the kitchen. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please comment below because I love hearing from you. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 1/4 cups




3/4 cup THICK  raw coconut milk or canned (BPA free)

1/2 cup coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup raw honey

10 drops liquid stevia

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

6 Tbsp raw cacao powder

dash Himalayan pink salt




Preparation:


Place the ingredients into a high-powered blender in the following order;  coconut milk, coconut oil, honey, stevia, vanilla,  cashews, cacao powder, and salt.  Blend until creamy.

If you feel any grit, continue blending till entirely smooth.

By placing the wet ingredients into the blender first, it will help the blades move more freely.

Taste test and see if you desire more sweetener.




Pour into popsicle molds and place in the freezer to firm up… 24-48 hours.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, single-serving ice cream containers and Push Up Cake Pop Containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



