Caramel Pecan Maple Ice Cream - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/caramel-pecan-maple-ice-cream/



	Caramel Pecan Maple Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This ice cream may cause brain freeze, but it warms the heart at the same time.  Something special happens when you combine pecans, maple, and caramel.  It is soothing and can whip any day of chaos into submission.

I chose to use maple syrup in this recipe which isn’t a raw product.  I wanted that sweet maple flavor with the bonus of having some pretty amazing health benefits. But just like any sweetener, always enjoy within moderation.   Too much of one thing is never a good thing.

Just two teaspoons of maple syrup provide 22 percent of our daily requirement of manganese.  Manganese is shown to build strong bones, keep our blood healthy, and support antioxidant work.  The zinc in maple syrup supports our immunity and heart. And I need those strong bones to carry me to the freezer so I can enjoy my ice cream!

Ingredients: yields 6 cups

Ice cream base:


2 cups raw pecans, soaked

1 cup raw cashews, soaked

2 1/4 cups water

1 cup pure maple syrup *not raw*

1/4 tsp maple extract

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup chopped raw pecans (reserved to crush and stir in towards the end)


Caramel sauce:


1/2 cup raw almond butter

1/2 cup maple syrup

1/2 cup date paste

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:

Ice cream base:


Drain and rinse the pecans and cashews.

In a high-powered blender, blend the pecans, cashews, water, maple syrup, vanilla extract, and salt, until completely smooth and creamy.  This can take 1-4 minutes depending on the machine.

Pour the batter into the ice cream machine and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

Before placing it in the freezer, hand stir in the chopped walnuts.

Keeps in the freezer, in a sealed container, for 1 month.


Caramel sauce:


In a high-powered blender combine the almond butter, sweetener, date paste, vanilla extract, and salt together.  Process until smooth.

Stop occasionally to scrape the sides down.

Store in the fridge in a glass container for about 2 weeks.

To soften, leave it out at room temperature for a few hours.





Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients:


To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn how to make your own raw almond butter by clicking (here).


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



