Yogurt Berry Pushup Pops (raw, dairy-free gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/yogurt-berry-pushup-pops/



	Yogurt Berry Pushup Pops

													    
    


				

~ raw, dairy-free gluten-free, nut-free ~

Mother Nature keeps turning up the thermostat here in Tucson.  If someone could distract her, I could try to sneak in and turn it down when she isn’t looking.

Today, I made this cold treat with Bob in mind.  He spent a good chunk of the day outside in the warm temperature of 90 degrees.  Shew!  I knew when he came home; this refreshing treat would be well received.

Random Thoughts

Due to the heat, I got to thinking about my baseball playing days. I wasn’t the best player, but I was one of those having the most fun. :)  I was one of those odd ducks who would be out in the left-field, mitt in left hand… the ball pops in the air (the crowd gasps) Amie Sue runs blindly all over the field because the sun was in her eyes, yea yea, that’s the ticket, the sun was blinding me!

The ball was high in the air, silence came over the audience, and all you could hear was the whistling of the ball as it sailed through the sky… I caught it!!!  Then had to rip my glove off so I could throw it with my left hand too.  I never quite learned how to catch with one and throw with the other.  Anyway, I got a bit side-tracked there…

I bet you are wondering where in the heck I got those neat push-up pop containers!   You can order them here.   They are so much fun and add something special to the whole experience.   Plus, you can wash and reuse them, and I love that idea.  You can use any Popsicle mold or even Dixie cups.  This will alter how many or how few of them you can make with one batch.


Ingredients:

 Yields 7


2 cups raw coconut yogurt or cashew yogurt

1/3 cup raw honey

6 oz organic berries




Preparation:



Blend yogurt and honey together in a large bowl.  Fold mixed berries in or place them in the Popsicle holder by hand.  I did this because my berries were really juicy and I didn’t want the yogurt to turn purple.

Transfer the yogurt into a Zip-lock bag so the mixture can be piped into Popsicle molds with ease.

Clip the corner and fill Popsicle molds close the top and put in Popsicle sticks.

Freeze for at least 3 hours.




Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, single-serving ice cream containers and Push Up Cake Pop Containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



