Watermelon Raspberry Popsicles (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/watermelon-raspberry-popsicles/



	Watermelon Raspberry Popsicles

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I realize that summer is winding its way down… according to the calendar that is… because if you stepped out my front door… Mother Nature would be telling you something different!  It’s been a tad bit too hot for my liking these past few days.

My girlfriend has two little ones who like to play outside and as I was thinking about them scouting out the marvels of the great outdoors… I felt a tug in my heart to make some freshly juiced watermelon popsicles for them.

Watermelon popsicles are 100% fruit and naturally help balance your electrolytes. So, I knew that these would be a perfect way to replenish and rehydrate their little bodies.

Popsicles always guide me back to my childhood… bringing forth wonderful snippets of time when I could let go of the world and just be present.  I have been calling upon that “inner child” of mine lately, asking her to teach me what it is, to be where my feet are. What it is to be present. What it is to solidify that child-like state of mind… regardless of how many candles end up on my cake with each passing year.

As I was pondering on all of this… a sweet smile spread across my lips as I started to remember a funny little memory that I had with my girlfriend, Bonita who lived in the same town as my Great Grandmother.

During my summertime visits to my great-grandparents, my girlfriend and I would ride our bikes to Chahinkapa Park, which housed a very small zoo.  Bonita and I would run through the narrow pathways of the zoo, scanning for any animal that might make an appearance.  Truthfully, they were smart and often tucked themselves into a shady corner BUT the buffalo… oooh the buffalo… they weren’t bothered by any weather pattern thrown at them.  They were always out for a viewing.

As exciting as that was… they were kind of boring for young, energetic children who craved action.  They just stood there. Quietly. No cute rolling around on the ground, no venturing towards the fence to entertain those passing by… it was as if they were frozen in time.  Trip after trip to the zoo, that was our typical experience. But then one day we discovered a new game.  I am almost too embarrassed to share this… and whether it is appropriate or not… I am going to proceed with this childhood memory. hehe

One day, we noticed that when one buffalo would start too….”tinkle”…. it would trigger a chain reaction with the nearby standing buffalos.  At first, we were disgusted, appalled, I mean really!  Here, now? In front of us?! Oh, we created such drama in our little minds. But once we let go of the fact that the buffalo weren’t purposely trying to offend us… we made a game out it.  We would each select a buffalo to see which one would tinkle the longest.  Oh, the joy it brought us. Lol, It was as if we were at a horse race… shouting, chanting, cheering the selected buffalos on!

Once the contest ended and the winner buffalo was applauded, and with no reward in hand, we would hop on our bikes and peddle our way on to our next adventure.  This went on almost daily that summer… we created quite the gambling ring. Is there a 12 step program to get over the gambling competition of buffalo tinkling?  Well goodness, that was a fun memory to revisit. I hope you don’t mind me sharing it with you. We are “family” here after all… and sometimes you just have to put up with relatives that just won’t shut up. Hehe Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


Pure watermelon juice

Frozen or fresh raspberries


Preparation:


Start by juicing a beautifully ripe watermelon.

Though the rind has nutrition in it, I didn’t juice that along with the flesh. I didn’t want to “water” down the sweet flavor of the ripe flesh.

Grab your popsicle molds and fill about 1/2 way full with raspberries.

Fill in with watermelon juice and freeze until solid.

Enjoy on a hot summer day.




Freezing Suggestions:




Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted. Always use plastic Dixie cups, the paper ones stick, and you have to tear them off of the popsicle.

Store in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping these treats way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect them from those steamy incursions.


 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



