Strawberry Coconut Chia Freezer Pops (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/strawberry-coconut-chia-freezer-pops/



	Strawberry Coconut Chia Freezer Pops

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I love these little jewels.  I like to either use cake push pop containers or small Dixie sized cups, but you can use any popsicle mold that you wish.  Shoot, you don’t even have to freeze it… it is amazing as a pudding as well.

Since strawberries are kind of the rock-star in this recipe, I will touch base on a few important things that I like to keep in mind when I buy them…  First and most importantly… Buy organic!

Dirty Dozen

Strawberries are on the Dirty Dozen list, which means they contain high levels of pesticides even after washing.  If you are really hungry for strawberries, but they are out of season, go to the freezer aisle and look for organic frozen strawberries. That is a better option than eating conventionally grown fresh strawberries.

Buy local.  If berries come from far away, they have to be picked before they’re ripe, which means less flavor and more time to start developing molds on them.  Look for bright red berries and dark seeds on the skin.  If there’s white around the stem, or in the center of the berry, it wasn’t picked at peak ripeness.    Also, never be shy in asking the local produce person if you can test one before making a purchase.  I have yet to be denied. :)

If you wish to make this recipe nut-free, replace the almond milk with more coconut milk. You can use water, but the popsicles won’t be as creamy tasting because water will introduce ice-crystals. To make this recipe sugar-free, I used my favorite stevia, but you are not a fan of stevia start by adding 2 Tbsp of your favorite liquid sweetener. Take it from there according to your taste buds. I hope you enjoy this quick and easy recipe. Blessings. amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 18


1 3/4 cups heavy coconut cream or canned 

1 cup almond milk

2 cups diced strawberries

6 Tbsp chia seeds

1/4 cup shredded coconut

1/2 tsp Nu-Naturals liquid stevia


Preparation:


In the blender combine the coconut cream, almond milk, strawberries, chia seeds, coconut, and stevia.  Blend until creamy.

Pour into popsicle molds, add the stick, and slide into the freezer for 6+ hours, until frozen.

Remove from freezer when ready to heat.  Roll the cup back and forth in between your hands until the pop, pops out!  Enjoy!



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, single-serving ice cream containers and Push Up Cake Pop Containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



