Strawberry Rhubarb Ice Cream (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/strawberry-rhubarb-ice-cream/



	Strawberry Rhubarb Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Summer kissed strawberries, paired with tart rhubarb turned out to be a delicious combination. I didn’t use rhubarb straight up raw, that can be an unpleasant experience.

Instead, I started the recipe off by marinading it. This softened it, taking away that fibrous texture, and secondly it sweetener it up. I have provided a link within the ingredient list to guide you through that step.

Interesting Facts

Rhubarb is a relative of buckwheat.  Botanically speaking, rhubarb is considered a vegetable, but it’s most often treated as a fruit — though it’s rarely eaten raw… until now!  Just like fresh cranberries, rhubarb is almost unbearably tart on its own and needs some sort of sweetener to balance out the acidity.

When selecting rhubarb look for fresh stalks that are flat, not curled or limp.  If possible, select stalks that have been pulled from the plant, not cut.  Pulled stalks dry out less rapidly.  Don’t get caught up in size.  It isn’t an indicator of tenderness. Instead, aim for rhubarb that has a deep red color as it is sweeter and richer.

Wrap rhubarb in plastic wrap and store it in the coldest part of the refrigerator for up to one week.  But before you do, cut off and discard any leaves and rinse.  Some people like to peel the skin before preparation, but this is not necessary.  Remember to cook only in non-aluminum pots; this is due to the acidic nature of rhubarb.

WARNING

Never eat rhubarb leaves, cooked or raw. Eating the leaves can be poisonous because they contain oxalate. This toxin, plus another toxin also found in the leaves, has been reported to cause poisoning when large quantities of raw or cooked leaves are ingested.

Ingredients:

yields 7 1/2 cups batter


22 oz  full-fat coconut milk or thick raw coconut cream

2 cups organic, sliced strawberries

1/2 cup maple syrup

1/2 tsp liquid stevia

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cups cashews, soaked 2 + hours

1 1/2 cups Rustic Rhubarb Sauce


Preparation:



Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 4 cups of water.

Soak for at least 2 hours.

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews, so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain, and rinse.




If you make your own coconut milk/cream… add the least amount of liquid to it, so you get a heavy cream.  If you use the canned, use full-fat.

In a high-powered blender combine the coconut cream, strawberries, maple syrup, stevia, salt, and cashews.  Blend until creamy.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




Add the Rustic Rhubarb Sauce and pulse in.  If you don’t want chunks of rhubarb, blend until creamy.  I have done it bother ways; totally blended and another time chunks left in… both were good.

Place the blender carafe in the freezer for 1 hour to chill.

Pour the batter into the ice cream machine and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

To serve, allow the ice cream to soften at room temperature for about 15 minutes.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, single-serving ice cream containers and Push Up Cake Pop Containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



