Raw Tahini "Caramel" and Mulberry Ice Cream
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/tahini-caramel-and-mulberry-ice-cream/



	Tahini “Caramel” and Mulberry Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This delightful ice cream is very creamy, rich in a caramel flavor (thanks to the combination of the tahini, dates, and mulberries), and very scoop-able.  I attribute that to the dates and lecithin.  It seems that with every batch of the ice cream I create, I find new-to-me discoveries.

Mulberries have a fig-like taste, and when they are eaten at room temperature, they have a satisfying firmness and a chewy consistency.  BUT when you freeze them, they become both sweet and crunchy.  I wanted that crunchy texture in my ice cream, that is why I didn’t blend them in with the ice cream base but instead mixed them in whole.

Mulberries are high in resveratrol, which is supposed to lower blood sugar, and an anti-oxidant, think of them as an uber-healthy alternative to the raisin.

There is no hiding the fact that dried fruits contain natural sugars, some contain 30 to 40 grams of sugar per serving, but dried mulberries contain less than half the amount of sugar found in raisins and significantly less than dried figs, cranberries, bananas, pineapples, mangos, and dates.  Even though we can sigh in relief that you are not consuming corn syrup and refined sugars, we need to keep in mind that all forms of sweeteners should be enjoyed in moderation.

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Ice cream batter:


1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 + hours

1 cup Medjool dates

14 oz thick coconut milk, raw or canned

1/2  cup coconut oil, melted

1 1/2 Tbsp tahini

1/2 cup raw coconut nectar or maple syrup

1/3 cup water

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 Tbsp sunflower lecithin, powdered


Mix in:


1/2 cup chilled dried mulberries


Preparation:


Soak (rehydrate) the pitted dates in water to help soften them.

Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 3 cups of water.

Soak for at least 2 hours.

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews, so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain, and rinse.




To melt the coconut oil, place the container (with the lid on tight) in a bowl or sink filled with hot water.

Into a high-powered blender combine the cashews, dates, coconut milk, coconut oil, tahini, coconut nectar, water, salt, and lecithin.  Blend until creamy smooth.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




After blending, place the blender jar in the fridge or freezer for 1 hour to chill the mixture.

Proceed with the manufacturer’s directions to complete the process in an ice cream machine.

Add the mulberries during the last 5 minutes of the ice cream machine running or hand mix in.




Let the ice cream rest on the counter for 10-15 minutes before serving.

For a fun serving suggestion, check out my waffle bowls and cones.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, single-serving ice cream containers and Push Up Cake Pop Containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



