Blackberry Coconut Cream Popsicle (raw, vegan, gluten-free
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/blackberry-coconut-cream-popsicle/



	Blackberry Coconut Cream Popsicle

													    
    


				

– raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free –

Summer is here!  It is now the norm to find the temperature in the three-digit format.  I am from Alaska; I am used to the double-digit weather, even single-digit… but triple-digit weather??!!

To help cool our inner cores, I made some creamy Popsicles that only require four ingredients!  It can’t get too much easier than that.  If you too are living in warmer climates, keep the following in mind:


Drink plenty of fluids throughout the day to prevent dehydration.  Water, fruit juices and juice drinks are best.  Do not wait until you are thirsty to drink.  Parents should be sure children get sufficient fluids as well.

Eat healthy Blackberry Coconut Cream Popsicles!

Minimize alcohol and caffeine because they dehydrate the body.

Eat healthy Blackberry Coconut Cream Popsicles!

Wear lightweight, light-colored, loose-fitting clothing.  When spending time outdoors, avoid direct sunlight, wear a hat, and use sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) greater than 15 to protect yourself against sunburn.

Eat healthy Blackberry Coconut Cream Popsicles!

Slow down and avoid strenuous activity.  If you must do strenuous activity, do it during the early morning or late evening hours when it is cooler.

Eat healthy Blackberry Coconut Cream Popsicles!


I hope you enjoy the simplicity of this recipe and stay cool. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 9 / 3 oz Dixie cups

Coconut Layer:


2 cups thick coconut cream

1/4 cup maple syrup


Blackberry Layer:


10 oz frozen blackberries, thawed (buy organic only!)

1/4 cup maple syrup


Preparation:


In the blender combine the ingredients for the coconut layer and pour into a separate container so you can blend the blackberry layer.

Combine the ingredients in the blender to make the blackberry layer.  Blend until nice and creamy.

As an option (which I did)  I strained the blackberry mixture through a nut bag to remove the seeds.




Fill the mold by alternating the coconut and blackberry layer until the cup is full.

I poked the Popsicle stick into one of the blackberries to help it stand in place, not to mention a fun surprise to find in the center of the Popsicle.  Place the stick in the middle of each Popsicle and freeze 4-5 hours before serving.




Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.

Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.


Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.


Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.

Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.

To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.

Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



