Maple Peach Ice Cream (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/maple-peach-ice-cream/



	Maple Peach Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, dairy-free ~

This refreshing Maple Peach Ice Cream hits the spot on these warm…hot….summer days! The first night I made this I dished up a couple of bowls for my dad and husband.  They sat in silence as I watched spoonful after spoonful disappears.

I was still putting things away when my dad walked into the kitchen and peered over my shoulder with a sheepish look on his face.  He then quizzed me on the ingredients and just shook his head, having a hard time comprehending the fact that it didn’t have any dairy in it.

This was his first encounter with “raw foods, ” and I was a tad nervous if he would like it or not.  He said he really liked it…and then asked for more!  I filled his bowl once again, and he walked away with a huge grin on his face.  Then my husband walked past him with an empty bowl and out came his lower lip….”It’s ok honey, there is MORE!”  He got all happy as I filled his bowl with round #2 as well.  There is no doubt that this recipe is a win!

The following night my dad got all excited when I mentioned that we still had some of the Maple Peach Ice Cream leftover for dessert if he was interested.  Before I even had the sentence out he said, “YES!”  Since then Bob has been having a bowl every night.  I served it on a half of a peach and Bob thought this was the bomb!  He told me to make sure that I mention that this is a great way to serve it. :)

You may notice that I use young Thai coconuts a lot in many of my recipes.  The reason I do that is first off I LOVE coconut and it is also sooo good for you!  I did a write-up on the health benefits of coconut that you can find here.  But it doesn’t stop there.  When it comes to using coconut oil in my recipes,  I go top quality!  Tropical Traditions was gracious enough to send me a huge jar of their premium, top-notch coconut oil to review.  They have so many amazing products on their website.  Be sure to check them out.

Ingredients:


2 cups raw almond milk

2 cups young Thai coconut meat

1 1/2 cup frozen peaches

3/4 cup maple syrup

2 tsp vanilla extract or  1 vanilla bean seeds only

2 Tbsp raw cold-pressed coconut oil

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


In a high-speed blender, combine the almond milk, coconut, peaches, maple syrup, vanilla, coconut oil, cinnamon, and salt. Blend until nice and creamy.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




Place the blender carafe in the fridge or freezer for 1 hour.

If chilled in the fridge it can stay in there for up to 8 hours.  But don’t leave it in the freezer for more than an hour or it will freeze solid.




Once chilled pour the batter into the ice cream maker and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

It is best to take the ice cream out of the freezer for about 10 minutes ahead of time so it can have a chance to soften.

Eat within 1 month.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



