Pecan Cranberry Pumpkin Ice Cream (raw, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/pecan-cranberry-pumpkin-ice-cream/



	Pecan Cranberry Pumpkin Ice Cream

													    
    


				


~ raw, gluten-free, dairy-free ~

Ready for Fall flavors but not quite ready to let summer slip away?  This raw ice cream is the perfect bridge between the two seasons.

It’s out-of-its-gourd Amazing!

Pecan Cranberry Pumpkin Ice Cream is an out-of-its-gourd frozen dessert experience. This ice cream pays homage to the beautiful Autumn that is quickly coming upon us.  I am a pumpkin lover, and my cravings for pumpkin intensifies as the Fall season approaches.

I know that this beautiful gourd is soon to be available and knowing that it’s  “season” comes and goes in the blink of the eye,  I start dreaming up new recipes. Perhaps there’s truth to the whole “absence makes the heart grow fonder” thing after all.

This recipe consists of pure pumpkin puree, whole foods, and a blend of warm, seasonal spices like nutmeg, cinnamon, ginger, and a hint of clove.

This morning as I was removing the ice cream batter from the machine,  I decided I needed a taste tester!  I mean, after I took a few bites and my eyes rolled back into my head, I knew it was a winner, but it always helps to get other opinions.  Before I ever release a recipe on this site,  I try to get multiple testers so I can fine-tune the recipe if need be.  But unfortunately, my loving husband is out-of-town.

But!  Ruben, our electrician, was working here today!!  I can use him as my guinea pig! :) So, I went on the hunt for Ruben and had him come into the kitchen to try the ice cream.  He took a spoonful, and his eyes lit up after swallowing it.  He ended up devouring a whole bowlful.  He laughed that he was eating ice cream for breakfast, but the scraping spoon sounds, lip-smacking, and the empty bowl in the sink assured me that this recipe was a winner.

A side story about my ice cream dish.  Last weekend,  I had the pleasure of meeting one of our Nouveau Raw subscribers. Hmm, the word subscribers sounds too impersonal… she has become a wonderful friend over the past year.  Her name is Jana and is from Switzerland.  She was on her way to attend Living Light Culinary Art Institute.   As she was making her way there, she stopped in Portland for a few days, and we made arrangements to meet for lunch. Bob and I drove in, and we all had a very good time over an excellent raw lunch at the Blooming Lotus.  We invited Jana to stay with us that evening, and she did just that. She came bearing several gifts, and a set of these gorgeous ice dishes was one of them.  She must have caught on to my love for dishware. So, today I had to make a special ice cream just for these bowls.  I think they complement one another, don’t you?   Many thanks once again Jana and many, many blessings on your journey!



Ingredients:


Yields 6 cups batter


1 cup raw pecans, soaked

1 1/2 cups soaked raw cashews, swelled to 2 cups

2 cups water

1 1/2 cups raw pumpkin puree

3 Tbsp raw honey

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/2 tsp liquid stevia

1 Tbsp lemon juice

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

2 Tbsp pumpkin spice (see below if you don’t have this spice)

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup diced, dried cranberries (add at the end)


Preparation:


Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 4 cups of water.

Soak for at least 2 hours.

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews, so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain, and rinse.

Follow the same process for the pecans.




In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, pecans, water, pumpkin, sweetener, lemon juice, vanilla, pumpkin spice, and salt.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




Once smooth, add the diced cranberries, pulse a few times to blend and then place the blender carafe in the fridge for one hour to chill.

Once it is chilled, transfer the mixture to your ice cream machine and follow the manufacturer’s directions.





Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




Don’t have pumpkin spice on hand?  No problem, you can make your own, here’s how:

Ingredients:

Yields 8 teaspoons of Pumpkin Spice


4 tsp ground cinnamon

2 tsp ground ginger

1 tsp Allspice

1 tsp nutmeg


Preparation:


Mix ingredients in a bowl.

Store in an airtight container.


 





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



