Oaty Pumpkin Spice Ice Cream Cones (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/oaty-pumpkin-spice-ice-cream-cones/



	Oaty Pumpkin Spice Ice Cream Cones

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

You know what I love about raw ice cream cones?  For starters, they are full of flavor and can be made with several different taste profiles to compliment any ice cream.  They are full of whole-food-nutritious-packed ingredients.

These cones freeze beautifully, which means that they are an excellent raw staple that you can have on hand to spruce up your everyday dessert times.  Can a store-bought, highly processed, styrofoam tasting, boxed ice cream cone do that for you?

Having raw ice cream available when cravings demand is really special… having a raw ice cream cone or bowl on hand to serve it in, well, just takes it over the top amazing.

The base for this recipe is oats, and I know that I have several readers out there who can’t partake of them.  In its place, I might try buckwheat or fresh ground nut flour.  Any nut would do.  Pecan comes to the forefront sand I think that it pairs so well with pumpkin-like flavors.

If you don’t have any pumpkin spice on hand, you can make your own.  The following recipe makes about 8 tablespoons worth.  I recommend making extra because it is nice to have around to add a warming flavor to other foods and drinks.   In a small mason jar combine; 4 Tbsp ground cinnamon, 4 tsp ground nutmeg, 4 tsp ground ginger, 3 tsp ground allspice.  Place the lid on top and give a good shake.

You know, I just got to thinking… wouldn’t it make a beautiful appetizer-like treat to make mini ice cream bowls?  You could place a small scoop of ice cream in each one… place them on a cookie sheet and slide it into the freezer.

This could be done well in advance, making your gathering that much less stressful?! When ready to serve, remove from the freezer, have your handy squeeze-bottle of Raw Rich “Caramel Butterscotch” Sauce, click (here) for the recipe…. and voila, instant, impressive dessert. 

Ingredients:

yields 9 depending on the size


2 cups packed Medjool dates, pitted (rehydrated)

2 cups raw rolled oats, soaked & dehydrated

3 tsp pumpkin spice

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp water


Preparation:


Start by rehydrating the dates.

Place the dates along with enough water to cover them in a bowl and set aside for about 10 minutes or until soft.

Once ready to use, drain the soaking liquid and hand-squeeze the excess water from them.   Set aside.




In a food processor fitted with the “S” blade, combine the oats, pumpkin spice, and salt.  Process until the oats are a very small crumble in texture.

Add the dates around the inside of the food processor bowl as well as the water. Process until the batter starts to stick together into a ball.  You may need to stop the machine a few times to scrap the sides. Set aside.

Prepare the cone and bowl molds:

Cones: wrap the cone mold with parchment paper, securing it with tape.  See photo below.  This will help in removing the inner cone mold when it is time.

Bowls: I used some small glass finger bowls, feel free to use any size you want.  Spray the bottom of the bowls with coconut oil.




To roll out the ice cream dough, place a non-stick sheet on the counter.

Spray the sheet with coconut oil.

Measure out 1/3 cup of batter and place in the center of the non-stick sheet.

Spray a second sheet of non-stick paper on top and gently roll the batter out into a circle, about 1/8-1/4″ thick.

Remove the top sheet.  The batter should be thin but thick enough to remove with ease.




Place a bowl on top (end side down, about 5 1/2″ in diameter) and press into the batter. The bowl acts like a big cookie cutter.  Trim the excess batter away from the bowl and return to the batter that has yet to be used.  Remove the bowl.

To make the cone:

Place the cone mold about 1/2 ” from the edge of the circle and start to roll the batter and mold together.  As you roll the batter onto the mold, slowly pull the non-stick sheet away from the batter.  Make sure that you are creating a tip at the bottom of the cone.  Gently press the seams of the batter into the cone and pinch the bottom to close it.  That way melted ice cream won’t leak out.

Bowl: Turn the non-stick sheet and batter over into the palm of your and gently pull the non-stick sheet off, leaving the batter in your hand.  Carefully center it over the bowl and lay it down over it.  Press the batter around the bowl shape but not too hard.




I used two mesh Excalibur trays to place the cones and bowls on.  Due to the height of them, I had to remove a few of the trays from the unit.

Dehydrate for 14-16 hours at 115 degrees (F). Halfway through you can remove the molds.  Return to the sheet and continue to dry until they are no longer sticky.  They firm up even more once cooled.

Store in airtight containers on the counter for 5-7 days or better yet, freeze them and use as needed.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				Wrap the cone molds with wax paper.
				
			
				
			
				
				After rolling out the dough, use a bowl as a template.
				

			
				
			
				
				Place the bowl on top and trim the excess from the edges.
				
			
				
			
				
				Remove the bowl.
				

			
				
			
				
				Place the mold on the far edge of the circle.
				
			
				
			
				
				Gently fold it over and start to roll it towards the other side.
				

			
				
			
				
				Be sure to form a point on the end. 
				
			
				
			
				
				Gently press together so it holds shape.
				

			
				
			
				
				To make a bowl, place a smaller bowl on the inside of the dough. 
				
			
				
			
				
				Flip it over so the dough is draping over.
				

			
				
			
				
				Carefully press the dough around the bowl.
				
			
				
			
				
				Place the cones on the mesh sheet of the dehydrator to dry.
				

		

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



