Peanut Butter & Jam Dixie Pops (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/peanut-butter-jam-dixie-pops/



	Peanut Butter & Jam Dixie Pops

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, dairy-free ~

The all-American comfort food of peanut butter and jelly. But instead of it being in the form of a sandwich, I turned it into a frozen summertime treat.

The first time I made these sweet little Dixie Pops, I forgot to add the popsicle sticks. Lol, That is what happens when a person has too many recipes going at once and gets distracted. (raises hand)

They turned into sweet little desserts that you can eat in a bowl.  One has to be flexible in this business. Haha  In a bowl, on a stick, on a flip-flop, it’s all good! I hope you enjoy this frozen treat. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Peanut Butter layer:  yields 1 3/4 cups


1 cup Raw Greek Nogurt

1/2 cup all-natural peanut butter

1/4 cup raw almond milk cream

1/2  tsp liquid stevia

1/8 tsp sea salt


Strawberry layer:  yields 2 1/4 cups


1 cup Raw Greek Nogurt

2 cups sliced strawberries

1/4 tsp liquid stevia



Preparation:

Peanut Butter layer:


In the blender combine the nogurt, peanut butter, almond milk cream, stevia, and salt.  Blend until mixed well.  Taste, add more stevia or desired sweetener if needed.


Strawberry layer:




In the blender combine the nogurt, strawberries, and stevia.  Blend until mixed well.  Taste, add more stevia or desired sweetener if needed.

Pour the mixture into the popsicle molds.  I used 3 oz plastic Dixie cups.  Alternate the batters.  The first layer being strawberry.  These Dixie cups are perfect for portion control, and they pop right out after being warmed in hand for about 10 seconds.  Tap each cup on the countertop to work out any air bubbles.

Slide small popsicle sticks in the center, sprinkle the chopped peanuts on the top, cover with plastic wrap, and place in the freezer overnight or until frozen.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!






Photo bomb!

I also used part of the batter to make these fun shaped frozen treats. I have a link up above.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



