Coconut Lime and Raspberry Frozen Popsicle (raw, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/coconut-lime-and-raspberry-frozen-popsicle/



	Coconut Lime and Raspberry Frozen Popsicle

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, grain-free ~

Do you know the history of the Popsicle… The Popsicle® brand is an American classic, with more than 30 creative variations of the original Popsicle® product. And believe it or not, it all started with an accident!

In 1905, 11-year-old Frank Epperson left a mixture of powdered soda, water, and a stirring stick in a cup on his porch. It was a cold night, and Epperson awoke the next morning to find a frozen pop. He called it the “Epsicle.”  It was a hit with his friends at school, and later with his own kids.

They constantly called for “Pop’s ‘sicles.” So in 1923, Epperson changed the name and applied for a patent. A couple of years later, Epperson sold the rights to the brand name Popsicle® to the Joe Lowe Company in New York. The rest is history!

When I was a little girl, I use to visit my great grandparents in the summer.  On a regular basis, my great-grandmother and I would make popsicles.  I would stand on the kitchen chair, and “help” grama make orange juice.  Truly she just used the frozen concentrate orange juice.  Back then we didn’t have fancy recipes such as Coconut Lime and Raspberry Frozen Popsicles.

We would make the juice and pour it into those old fashion ice cube trays.  For some of you young whippersnappers out there an ice-cube tray is a plastic or metal tray divided into cubes. It is designed to be filled with water, then placed in a freezer until the water freezes to ice. Plastic trays are flexible so that the frozen cubes can be easily removed by flexing the tray.  :)

She had one of those old fashion metal ones, an aluminum tray with a lever that raised the ice cubes, freeing them from the tray.  We would pour in the OJ and place them in the freezer.  When they were just about set, we would pop toothpicks in the center of each cube and continue to let them freeze.  These were always such a special treat for my girlfriend Bonita and me.  We would sit on the front steps of the house, enjoying the shade as we devoured those yummy cold treats.

Ingredients:

Coconut Lime Layer:


2 cups coconut cream

1 cup raw almond milk

3/4 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup fresh lime juice

1 tsp vanilla

1 Tbsp sunflower lecithin (optional)


Raspberry Layer:


10 oz raspberries, frozen/thawed, organic

1/4 cup raw almond milk

1/4 cup maple syrup


Preparation:

Coconut Lime Layer:


In the blender combine the coconut cream, almond milk, sweetener, lime juice, vanilla, and lecithin. Blend until creamy. Pour into a separate container so you can make the raspberry layer.


Raspberry Layer:


In the blender combine the raspberries, almond milk, and sweetener. Blend until smooth.

Fill the Dixie cups or molds by alternating the coconut and raspberry layer until the cup is full.

Place a stick in the middle of each Popsicle and freeze 4-5 hours before serving.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



