Chocolate Peanut Butter Chunk Ice Cream (raw, dairy-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/chocolate-peanut-butter-chunk-ice-cream/



	Chocolate Peanut Butter Chunk Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, dairy-free, gluten-free ~

I love raw ice creams, I love chocolate, and I love raw peanut butter chunks.  Put this all together, and you got yourself an eye-rolling, mouth-watering, sinful dessert!  This has turned into one of my favorite ice creams.  Nobody would ever guess that it was dairy and gluten-free.

Below, I have listed a few options for sweeteners. I have made it with agave, maple syrup, and raw honey. You can use any of those, but my favorite ended up being the raw honey. It helped to keep the ice cream from setting up brick hard. Use whatever sweetener you find fitting to your liking.

If you don’t or can’t get your hands on Young Thai coconut meat, you can use full-fat canned coconut milk or 2 cups of soaked cashews.  The cashews do give it a bit more of a creamy texture. Again, there are options, and options should be tested. :)

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Peanut Butter dough:


1 cups oats, gluten-free

1/2 cup oat flour

1/2 tsp Himalayan sea salt

1/2 cup peanut butter, all-natural

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/8 cup raw honey

2 Tbsp raw cold-pressed coconut oil

1  tsp vanilla extract


Ice cream base:


2 cups raw almond milk

2 cups young Thai coconut meat

1/3 cup maple syrup or honey

1/2 cup raw cacao powder

2 Tbsp raw cold-pressed coconut oil

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp Himalayan sea salt


Preparation:

Peanut butter dough:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine all the whole oats, oat flour,  and salt. Pulse together to incorporate the salt.

Add the peanut butter, sweeteners, coconut oil, and vanilla. Process until everything is mixed together.

Don’t over mix or it could become very oily.




Roll into tiny balls to add to the ice cream once it is done in the ice cream machine.  I used 2 cups worth.


Ice cream base:


In a high-speed blender, combine the almond milk, coconut, sweetener, cacao powder, coconut oil, vanilla,  and salt.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.




Place the blender carafe in the fridge or freezer for 1 hour.

If chilled in the fridge it can stay there for up to 8 hours.  But don’t leave it in the freezer for more than an hour or it will freeze solid.




Once chilled pour the batter into the ice cream maker and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

Once the ice cream has gone through the ice machine or your container in the freezer is about frozen (depending on your method), add small chunks of your peanut butter dough to the ice cream.  Gently stir in and freeze your ice cream.

Stir in the peanut butter cookie balls and pour the batter in any shape or sized freezer-safe container.




It is best to take the ice cream out of the freezer for about 10 minutes ahead of time, so it can have a chance to soften.

Eat within 1 month.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



