READY Raw Salted Peanut Butter and Honey Ice Cream
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/salted-peanut-butter-and-honey-ice-cream/



	Salted Peanut Butter and Honey Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free, dairy-free ~

Fear is an emotion that everyone has experienced; it’s sometimes a good thing to experience fear as it can keep us safe or give us strength when it is most needed.  I am here to confess a fear that I have… you may have heard of it before, it’s called…

Arachibutyrophobia.

I can hardly pronounce it, let alone spell it but it is a fear of peanut butter sticking to the roof of one’s mouth. I know, right, you’re not the only one!  There are others in the world that experience such fear.

But I am here to encourage you, to support you, and to shove a spoon of peanut butter into your mouth, because in order to truly overcome this fear for good, you have to face, taste, and feel this fearfully so you could have the experience of overcoming it firsthand in order to put it behind you.

Ok, maybe shoving a spoonful of peanut butter in your mouth is a bit abrasive, so we can take baby steps. So, with you in mind, I created this ice cream recipe that incorporates peanut butter.  I promise you; it won’t get stuck to the roof of your mouth either.  But it will make your mouth water… man oh man, I outdid myself with this one.

I want to cover a few ingredients that I used in this recipe.  First off, lecithin.  I knew that I had to talk about this because the question will come up as to whether or not it is a must within the recipe.  The answer is, no… But here is…


Why I add sunflower lecithin.

Sunflower lecithin is made up of essential fatty acids and B vitamins.  It helps to support the healthy function of the brain, nervous system, and cell membranes.  It also lubricates joints and helps break up cholesterol in the body. It comes in two forms, powder and liquid.  I prefer the powder raw sunflower lecithin.  Setting aside all the nutritional benefits, it is a natural emulsifier that binds the fats from nuts with water creating a creamy consistency.

Sweet loving raw honey…

I used raw honey as my primary sweetener for this ice cream. I did this because raw honey consists of sugars with smaller molecules than those of table sugar, so it’s more than twice as effective at lowering the freezing point of ice cream.  Faster freezing means smaller ice crystals, one of the keys for creamy ice cream.

Peanuts are not Nuts.

I am getting a few comments/emails regard the titling of this recipe.  I stated that this recipe is nut-free and it is.  Peanuts are not nuts; they are legumes. “Despite its name, a peanut is a legume and not a nut. This is why some people who have allergies to certain nuts can still eat peanuts, and other individuals with peanut allergies can eat true nuts.”  (source)



Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups batter


28 ounces thick coconut milk, raw or canned

3/4 cup raw honey

2/3 cup fresh ground peanut butter

2 Tbsp coconut oil, melted

1 Tbsp sunflower powder lecithin

1 tsp pure vanilla extract

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon


Preparation:


In a high-speed blender, combine the coconut milk, honey, peanut butter, coconut oil, lecithin, vanilla, salt, and cinnamon. Blend on high for 60 seconds until creamy.

Place the blender carafe in the fridge or freezer for 1 hour.

If chilled in the fridge it can stay there for up to 8 hours.  But don’t leave it in the freezer for more than an hour or it will freeze solid.




Once chilled pour the batter into an ice cream maker and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

Make sure that the ice cream machine bowl is completely frozen before using.  Tip: Wrap the ice cream maker bowl in a plastic bag and put it in the freezer until the cooling liquid is completely frozen – about 10-22 hours. The plastic bag will help protect the bowl from freezer burn.

Due to the long freezing period required for the freezer bowl, it is best to keep it stored in the freezer at all times. This ensures that the freezer bowl will be ready whenever you are.




If you like soft-serve consistency, you can enjoy your ice cream immediately. If you desire a more firm texture, transfer the ice cream to a freezer-safe container and freeze for 2-4 more hours.

It is best to take the ice cream out of the freezer about 10 minutes ahead of time, so it can have a chance to soften.

Eat within 1 month.  Remember to always store ice cream in freezer-safe, airtight containers to prevent freezer burn.

Wish to enjoy a peanut butter cookie with this ice cream (highly recommended) check out my recipe for Raw Peanut Butter Cookies.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, single-serving ice cream containers and Push Up Cake Pop Containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



