Creamy Vanilla Bean Frozen Custard (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/creamy-vanilla-bean-frozen-custard/



	Creamy Vanilla Bean Frozen Custard

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, grain-free ~

This frozen custard is velvety smooth, rich, and creamy… none like any of my other ice cream recipes. I have always enjoyed raw ice creams, but this one takes the cake on true texture.  To best describe this dessert, I need to explain what frozen custard is.  This will help set the stage for this recipe.

Frozen custard is a very thick, creamy frozen dessert made with cream, sugar, and eggs.  In general, frozen custards are richer than other frozen desserts because they tend to have a higher percentage of butterfat, must contain egg yolks, and are churned more slowly.  They’re most often made and served the same day to preserve the texture.

Now, on to my recipe here…   To call this an ice cream might create false expectations. Ice cream is normally not this dense or rich.  My custard doesn’t contain cream, instead, I used cashews instead.  My custard doesn’t contain sugar; I used raw honey instead.  My custard doesn’t contain butterfat, I used coconut oil instead.   And my custard doesn’t contain eggs, I used coconut meat instead.


I will warn you, once the batter is finished blending… it is crazy amazing right off the spatula.   You could seriously, dish it up in little bowls and chill them for a few hours and serve it as a custard-like pudding.  I was tempted to stop the process right there, but I managed to keep it in the ice cream machine for 20 minutes.  At this stage, it became Oh-My-Gosh-Shut-The-Front-Door-Seriously….good!!

This is the most creamy, velvety, and taste bud tantalizing frozen dessert that I have ever made (so far).  To recreate what I did, I don’t recommend substituting any of the ingredients.  The other key thing will be the blending process.  In order to get that perfect mouth texture, you must blend it until you don’t feel any grit from the nuts!  That being said… I will let you be so you can try out this recipe. I hope you enjoy! Blessings, amie sue
Ingredients:

Yields 2 1/2 cups


2 cups raw cashews, soaked for 2+ hours

1 cup Young Thai coconut meat

1/3 cup raw honey or maple syrup

1/3 cup coconut oil, melted

1/3 cup raw almond milk

1 vanilla bean, seeds only

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 4 cups of water.

Soak for at least 2 hours.

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews, so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain, and rinse.




Note: Vanilla bean seeds ~ slice the vanilla bean down the center of the pod.  Lay the edge of the knife along the opening and scrape it from one end to the other, collecting the seeds on the knife.

In a high-power blender combine the cashews, coconut meat, honey, coconut oil, milk, vanilla, and salt.

Due to the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.

Feel free to use any liquid sweetener that you feel comfortable with.




Place in an ice cream machine for 20 minutes.  Remove and eat!  Store leftovers in an airtight glass container in the freezer.

To enjoy the leftovers (if there are any) remove them from the freezer and allow them to sit on the countertop for 15 minutes prior to serving.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!






© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



