Raw Holiday Eggnog Ice Cream
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/holiday-eggnog-ice-cream/



	Holiday Eggnog Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This ice cream was inspired by my Raw Vegan Eggnog recipe.  My brain is conditioned always to find creative ways to use a recipe.  I am pretty confident when I say that just about every raw recipe I make, I can modify into two-to-four different recipes.

I want to quickly share some serving ideas with you.  For starters, every time I make ice cream, I always create single-serving dishes of it for the ease of grab-and-go. My husband is a grab-and-go kind of guy. :)

First thing first… no matter what vessel you choose to use, make sure that it is freezer-safe.  You don’t want the container, especially if glass to crack under the extreme temperature and ruin your precious dessert. For my single servings, I like to use freezer-safe 4 oz mason jars. Click (here) to see what I am referring to.

You can also purchase 8 oz paper cups that are made specifically for frozen desserts. Click (here).  These are nice for gift giving if you don’t want to give up your little jars, but in the end, I always use the jars because I like the idea of reuse.

If you want to really make a beautiful presentation for the holidays, you can use glass punch cups.  Just make sure they can handle the freezer.  They do sell plastic ones too if you are unsure or don’t have any.  You can find the glass ones, easily, at thrift stores.  That is what I did. :)

Ladle some of the ice cream into the cups and freeze.  You can always freeze the ice cream in a different container and scoop it out into the cups, but I liked how the eggnog ice cream looked as though it was drinkable.  It’s all about the presentation. Remove the ice cream from the freezer about 10 minutes before serving so it can soften a tad.  Add some whipped coconut cream on top, and sprinkle with some ground nutmeg or cinnamon.  Beautiful!

Please refer to my Raw Vegan Eggnog recipe if you are looking for ingredient substitution ideas. I hope you enjoy this idea. Many blessings and Happy Holidays, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 5 3/4 cup batter


4 cups raw almond milk

1 cup raw almonds or raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2 large frozen banana

8 large Medjool dates

2 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil

2 Tbsp raw lucuma powder

2 Tbsp raw coconut nectar or maple syrup

4 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp freshly grated nutmeg (grated on a microplane)

1 tsp ground cinnamon


Preparation:


Soak the nuts of choice for at least 2+ hours, drain, discard the soak water, and set aside.

If you use almonds instead of cashews, you will want to remove the skins after soaking them. Click (here) to learn how.  This will prevent your eggnog from having brown flecks in it.




To make the almond milk, I blended 2 cups of raw almonds along with 4 cups of water.  Once thoroughly blended, I squeezed it through a nut bag.  You can read more here on how to make nut milk if you are new to it. I just wanted to share the measurements that I used for this exact recipe so you could achieve the same consistency.  Rinse the blender.

To the blender add the almond milk,  cashews, banana, dates (make sure all pits are removed), coconut oil, lucuma, sweetener, vanilla, nutmeg, and cinnamon.

Blend for 1-3 minutes, or until completely smooth and free of any grit.




Place the blender jar in the freezer for 40-60 minutes to get nice and chilled.

If you don’t have time to deal with it right away, you can place it in the fridge overnight, then proceed the next day to make the ice cream part.




Once chilled, pour the batter into the ice cream machine and follow the manufacturer directions.

After it is done churning, pour into the desired container that is freezer-safe.

I like to use 4 oz mason jars since they make for perfect single servings.

To serve at a holiday party, I poured the ice cream into glass punch mugs and slid them into the freezer.  (make sure they can handle the freezer).   Remove 10 minutes before serving.




Option:  To keep the festive spirit going, I topped the ice cream off with some coconut whip.  I pour a full chilled can (organic and BPA free) of full-fat coconut milk into my ISI whip cream dispenser (extra chargers), added 1 tsp vanilla and 1 squirt of liquid NuNaturals stevia.  It is important that the coconut milk is chilled and that you shake the dispenser really really well before using it.  I then sprinkled freshly cracked cinnamon on top. Delish!



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



