Raw Caramelized Onion Ice Cream
https://nouveauraw.com/ice-creams/caramelized-onion-ice-cream/



	Caramelized Onion Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Now, now, stop wrinkling your nose.  Yes you, I see you. There is always something new to make for dessert. For starters, the creamy smoothness of this ice cream will far surpass many of the standard commercial ice creams that you will find at your local grocery store.

See, I am easing you into this onion ice cream idea. Hehe Is it working?   I wanted to create an ice cream I would fall madly in love with; you know the kind that you just want to bathe in?  Ok, maybe we don’t want to soak in onion ice cream, but hang in there with me.  It’s not often that I let you down, why would you think that I would start here? :)

In my kitchen lab, our (my) unique flavor development process embraces the idea that “eating ice cream is an experience that creates memories.”  Our (that would be me again) “recipe” for developing a new flavor includes extensive measures of experience, passion, and downright “pickiness” for creating a memorable flavor.

My flavor development team (ah, me again hehe) includes very passionate people (me) who enjoy GOOD ice cream. Their (those would be my) ice cream flavor concepts are brought to life in our lab where we (I) try as many creative flavors that I can handle.  Our Team (Bob and I) is committed to eating as much ice cream as necessary to ensure that only the best flavor concepts make it into the Nouveau Raw line-up! Dang, I really need to hire a larger staff! lol

05/26/16 update.  I have continued to make this ice cream over the years, and each time I do, Bob always acts so surprised and loves it till the last bowl has been licked.  I hope you enjoy the recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 4 1/2 cups


2 cups cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 1/2 cup raw almond milk

1/2 cup raw honey or raw coconut nectar

2 Tbsp coconut butter, softened

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1 cup raisins


Add: 


1 cup caramelized onions



Preparation:


Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 4 cups of water.

Soak for at least 2 hours.

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews, so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain, and rinse.




In order, add the following ingredients; almond milk, honey, coconut butter, vanilla, cashews, and raisins.  Process till nice and creamy.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




Add the caramelized onions and blend for 30 seconds.

If you have an ice cream maker, after the mixture is blended, chill for about 1 hour in the freezer and then pour into your ice cream maker and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

It is best to take the ice cream out of the freezer for about 10 minutes ahead of time, so it can have a chance to soften.  Did you know that softer ice cream has more flavor than hard, frozen ice cream?  Test it for yourself.



Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



