Spicy Lemon Pepper Broccoli Zucchini Pasta (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/italian-cuisine/spicy-lemon-pepper-zucchini-pasta-with-broccoli/



	Spicy Lemon Pepper Broccoli Zucchini Pasta

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

The key to this dish is balancing the salt, lemon juice, and oil.  You want enough oil to distribute the flavors over the zucchini, but not so much oil to where it is pooling on the bottom of your bowl.

You want just enough to coat the zucchini and no more.   The salt and the lemon juice should even each other out;  you should taste both without either being overwhelming.  Start with 1 tsp of the lemon juice and then add the salt to taste.

Ingredients:

Serves 1-2


1 medium to large zucchini, spiralized

1 Tbsp cold pressed olive oil

1/2 tsp hot red pepper flakes

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp black pepper

2 cups Fresh Broccoli Florets

1/2 large, diced avocado

1/4 cup sliced sun-dried tomatoes, rehydrated

Lemon Zest, for garnish, optional




Preparation:

Noodles:


After spiralizing the noodles, place them in a shallow baking dish, spreading them out.  Sprinkle with a liberal amount of salt and set aside.

The salting process will help draw the liquid out of the noodles, making them limp-like.  You will start to see them sweat and then release puddles of liquid.

Once done soaking, place them in a colander and rinse them with hot water.

You can warm the noodles prior to serving by placing them in the dehydrator at 115 degrees (F) for about 15 minutes or until it reaches the level of warmth that you desire.

You can skip the salting process if you like a crunchier texture.




In a medium-sized bowl combine the oil, lemon juice, and seasoning.  There isn’t much there but whisk it together.

Add the broccoli, sun-dried tomatoes, and avocado. Gently toss together, so all the veggie are coated with the seasoning.  I added some pistachios, which added a great texture.

Plate and grind fresh black pepper over the top, adding lemon zest if desired.  Serve immediately.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



