Zucchini Noodles with Marinara Sauce
https://nouveauraw.com/italian-cuisine/zucchini-noodles-with-marinara-sauce/



	Zucchini Noodles with Marinara Sauce

													    
    


				

 raw / vegan / gluten-free / nut-free

I prepared this dish for a (un)cooking class that I taught last week.  I made 60 sample servings which was entirely way too much fun.  I love all things-small-and-adorable and tiny little pasta dishes are right up there with deodorant bottles!

My whole approach with this dish was to present a low glycemic recipe and not only did I accomplish that, but it also tasted fantastic to boot!  I had oodles of fun making all the zucchini noodles.

If you don’t have a spiralizer in your kitchen, I highly recommend the investment.  Not only do they make excellent veggie noodles, but they are also a great way to get your kids to interact with you in the kitchen.

To see their sweet little eyes brighten as they watch noodles form is just priceless.   They will be so excited they might even like eating their veggies too!

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups =  4 servings (1/4 cup)




1 cup sun-dried tomatoes, re-hydrate

2 medium ripe tomatoes (seeded and rough chopped)

1 Tbsp maple syrup

1 small garlic clove

2 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1 Tbsp cold-pressed olive oil

2 tsp dried oregano

1 tsp balsamic vinegar

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3/4 cup water

4 medium zucchini (spiralized)


Preparation:


Click (here) to make the zucchini noodles.  Once done, set aside.

Rehydrate the sun-dried tomatoes:

Place them in a bowl and add enough water to cover them.  Let them sit for roughly 15 minutes.

This soaking process will help soften them for blending purposes.

Do not use oil-packed tomatoes.  If you must, omit the olive oil from the recipe.

Once done soaking, drain the soak water and hand-squeeze the excess water from them.




In a high-speed blender combine the sun-dried and fresh tomatoes, agave, garlic, nutritional yeast, olive oil, oregano, vinegar, and salt.  Blend until well combined.  The sauce should be thick.

If the sauce is too thick, start adding the water, 1 Tbsp at a time.

This always differs depending on the amount of water left in the tomatoes and the juiciness of the fresh tomatoes.

You can substitute raw apple cider vinegar for balsamic vinegar if you want to retain an all raw dish.




Toss the sauce with the zucchini noodles and enjoy right away.

I recommend only dressing some noodles that you plan on eating in one sitting.  Otherwise, the salts will continue to draw water from the zucchini and make the sauce watery.




Store leftovers separately in the fridge for 3-4 days.


Be sure to serve it with Parme’nut’san Cheese!



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



