Olive & Sun-Dried Tomato Tapenade (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/italian-cuisine/olive-sun-dried-tomato-tapenade/



	Olive & Sun-Dried Tomato Tapenade

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

You’re just a food processor whirl away from experiencing true European cuisine…

Tapenade

Tapenade is typically a pounded paste made of olives, capers, and olive oil.  But, if you look through all the google-sphere of recipes on tapenade, you will quickly find that the ingredients are all over the map.  So, to me, that gives me free reign to use my own imagination.

The beauty of this dip/spread is that it is very versatile and can be used a number of ways. For starters I used some of it along with my cashew cream cheese and made an amazing spread, click (here) to see that recipe.

You can also serve it with crackers, raw breads, dip veggies in it or how about tossing some in with zucchini noodles!  Never be afraid to play with your food.  Because if you don’t, who will? :)

One thing that I noticed with this type of spread is that after it is stored in the fridge, the oil coating on all of the ingredients gets a little cloudy.  To fix this, I placed it in an airtight container and submerged it in a bowl of hot water.  This just warms it up a bit, relaxing the oil.  Give a quick stir and all is back to normal.  May many blessings surround your family.  amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 cups


1 1/2 cups raw kalamata olives, pitted

1/2 cup sun-dried tomatoes

2 Tbsp capers

2 Tbsp flat-leaf parsley

2-3 Tbsp avocado or olive oil

1 – 2 cloves garlic, minced


Preparation:


I recommend using a small bowl attachment to your food processor for this job.  This recipe is just too small for the large processor bowl or for a blender.  I tried. :)

If you don’t have one, a mortar and pestle will work.

If you don’t have that, you can hand chop everything for a more rustic texture.  Work those knife skills!




In the small bowl attachment for the food processor, combine the olives, tomatoes, capers, parsley, oil, and garlic.  Pulse together until it creates a chunky paste.  You can make it as chunky or smooth as you want.

I used dried sun-dried tomatoes that weren’t soaked in oil.




Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



