Basil Pesto and Zucchini Noodles - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/italian-cuisine/basil-pesto-and-zucchini-noodles/



	Basil Pesto and Zucchini Noodles

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This evening I made this amazing dish for my husband and our dear friend Todd.  Unknown to me at the time, Basil is one of his favorite foods!  Todd has been staying with us for the past week and every day I am exposing him to delicious raw dishes.

Tonight’s dish didn’t let us down.  It was a huge hit with everyone!  It is so fresh and fragrant!  Not to mention the color of the sauce is so vibrant.   I stumbled upon this recipe years ago, and I believe it is by Penni Shelton.  One batch is the perfect amount for 2 servings.

Ingredients:

Yields 1 cup sauce


4 cups packed fresh basil

1/3 cup cold-pressed olive oil

1/3 cup raw pine nuts or cashews

3 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 cloves garlic

1 Tbsp nutritional yeast 

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

Freshly cracked pepper to taste

4 medium zucchini’s, spiralized


Preparation:

Noodles:


After spiralizing the noodles, place them in a shallow baking dish, spreading them out.  Sprinkle with a liberal amount of salt and set aside.

The salting process will help draw the liquid out of the noodles, making them limp-like.  You will start to see them sweat and then release puddles of liquid.

Once done soaking, place them in a colander and rinse them with hot water.

You can warm the noodles prior to serving by placing them in the dehydrator at 115 degrees (F) for about 15 minutes or until it reaches the level of warmth that you desire.





Sauce:


In a food processor or blender, combine basil oil, nuts, lemon juice, garlic, nutritional yeast, salt, and pepper.  Process until you achieve the desired consistency.

If you don’t have any basil or just a little bit, you can use spinach in its place or as a mix.




Transfer into a small covered bowl and store in your refrigerator until you are ready to use it

This should keep 1-3 days. You can also easily freeze this pesto and thaw when ready to use.


Serving:


You can either coat the noodles with the sauce or serve the sauce on top of the pile of noodles.  I like it well mixed, so everything gets coated.

Enjoy at room temp, chilled, or place the dish in the dehydrator to warm at 115 degrees (F).





 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



