Raw Creamy Garlic Dill Zucchini Pasta
https://nouveauraw.com/italian-cuisine/creamy-garlic-dill-zucchini-pasta/



	Creamy Garlic Dill Zucchini Pasta

													    
    


				Creamy Garlic Dill Zucchini Pasta


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I have always been a pasta lover, but I gave it up many many years ago when I let go of gluten and processed foods.  I didn’t need the empty calories, the high starchy carbs or the flour that it is made out of.  Thank goodness for veggie noodles!

In my raw venture, I came across the Spiralizer that turns any hard veggie into noodles!  My favorite veggies to use is zucchini and celery root.  Who knew that ugly knot-looking bulb had a purpose!  This garlic dill sauce is just scrumptious!  I usually add a little more water than what the recipe calls for, but that is only because I like a thinner sauce.

If you don’t own a spiralizer, I recommend getting one.  You can find them through Amazon for $25.  Kids love making them and eating them too … what a sneaky yet fun way to get more veggies into them.  Please read (this) post on different ways that you can create veggie noodles.

Ingredients:


2 medium zucchini’s, spiralized

1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup water

1 Tbsp lemon juice or raw apple cider vinegar

1 Tbsp cold-pressed olive oil

1-3 cloves garlic

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp fresh chopped dill


Preparation:

Noodles:


After spiralizing the noodles, place them in a shallow baking dish, spreading them out.  Sprinkle with a liberal amount of salt and set aside.

The salting process will help draw the liquid out of the noodles, making them limp-like.  You will start to see them sweat and then release puddles of liquid.

Once done soaking, place them in a colander and rinse them with hot water.

You can warm the noodles before serving by placing them in the dehydrator at 115 degrees (F) for about 15 minutes or until it reaches the level of warmth that you desire.





Sauce:


After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse them. Add to a blender.

Add the water, lemon juice, garlic, oil, and salt.  Blend until creamy.

Hand mix in the chopped dill.


Serving:


You can either coat the noodles with the sauce or serve the sauce on top of the pile of noodles.  I like it well mixed, so everything gets coated.

Enjoy at room temp, chilled, or place the dish in the dehydrator to warm at 115 degrees (F).


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



