Onion Dill & Horseradish Cream Kale Chips (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/kale-chips/onion-dill-horseradish-cream-kale-chips/



	Onion Dill & Horseradish Cream Kale Chips

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

If you like a bit of sharp-slightly-spicy-fire-breathing-nose-burn-flavor… this kale chip just might be up your alley. Of course, you can control the amount of horseradish you add which will determine the burn.

Let’s set the record straight

Horseradish is no radish, and it’s got nothing to do with horses. It is actually part of the mustard family which makes total sense. Have you ever made raw mustard? Shew… it can have that same nose-fire-breathing-effect as well!  Click (here) to visit my recipe on how to make it. Good stuff, Maynard… Good stuff.

This recipe was born from my Onion Dill & Horseradish Cream Sauce recipe, which came from my Onion Dill & Horseradish Cheese. This my friends is why I love raw foods so much.  Raw is amazingly versatile. I mean really.  Three totally different results from basically one recipe.  That is what I am here to teach… to help you see your food in a completely new light.

Taking pictures of kale chips is so difficult. I have struggled with it my whole recipe blogging career. A bowl of kale chips just looks like a bowl of crusty green things. So, I have devoted my kale photo taking pictures to a single chip.

I want you to see the tight folds of the curly kale… to witness how the thick creamy sauce curls up in those folds, lending you pockets of flavor with each and every bite.  That my friend is the true success of a kale chip. But don’t take my word for it, give this recipe a try. If you like spicy, then I know you will enjoy it as much as we do. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 cups of sauce

Cheese base:


3/4 cup water

1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hours

1/4 cup nutritional yeast

3 Tbsp lemon juice

2 Tbsp tahini

2 Tbsp white horseradish powder

2 tsp Dijon mustard

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp onion powder

1/4 tsp garlic powder

1/4 tsp dried onion flakes

2 tsp dried dill weed



Preparation:

Kale Prep:



Selecting Kale:

Don’t use wilted / old kale; it can have a bitter undertone.

I prefer Curly Kale because all of the folds really hold onto the sauce.




Wash and de-stem your kale.

Start by washing the kale and blotting it dry.  You can also use a salad spinner if you own one.

Make sure you get as much excess water off of the kale as possible.  If you don’t, it will make your sauce “soupy”.  Set aside.

Starting at the bottom strip away the leaf leaving behind only the stem.

Tear the remaining leaves into pieces that are a tad larger than bite-size since they tend to shrink.





Sauce Prep:


After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the water.

In a blender add the water, cashews, nutritional yeast, lemon juice, tahini, horseradish powder, salt, mustard, onion powder, and garlic powder and blend until smooth.

Create a vortex in the blender; this will help ensure that the sauce is getting thoroughly blended into a creamy texture.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing, instead of just spinning the ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape down the sides.

This process can take 1-3 minutes, depending on the power of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm., stop the machine and let it cool, then proceed once cooled.





Assembly:


Place the torn kale into a very large bowl.

Pour tin the sauce and with your hands gently and evenly coat each piece of kale.

This is a “hands-on” job.  Stirring with a spoon just doesn’t do the trick.

I would suggest removing any jewelry from your fingers.  I have temporarily lost a ring here and there.





Dehydrator Method:


Have the dehydrator trays ready by lining them with non-stick teflex or parchment paper.

Don’t use wax paper because food tends to stick to it.

Spread all the trays out in advance because soon your hands will be covered in sauce and you don’t want to get it all over.




Place the kale on the non-stick sheets.  You can do this 1 of 2 ways:

Lay each piece out semi-flat if you want to create individual pieces.  More time-consuming and chips tend to a be a little bit more fragile.

Or, drop clumps of coated kale on the sheets.  This will create hardy clusters that are loaded with sauce and flavor, this is my preference.




Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for about 6-8 hrs or until dry.

I tend to pull mine out before it gets 100% dry because I like it a little chewy.

The dry time is just an estimate.  The climate, humidity, dehydrator and how full the machine is can all affect how long it will take to dry.




Store in an airtight glass container and be ready to nibble non-stop till the last crumb is gone!

If the kale chips start taking on some humidity from the house, you can place them back into the dehydrator for a few hours at 115 degrees (F).


Oven Method:


Please use as a guide and closely monitor the kale chips as they cook.

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees (F), anything higher and risk burning the chips.

Line the baking sheet with parchment paper and place the kale chips on the baking sheet in a single layer.

Bake for 10 minutes, rotate the pan and bake for another 15 minutes.

The bake times will vary based on your oven, but it’s a good starting off point!




Once you pull the tray from the oven, allow the chips to cool on the baking sheet.

Store in an airtight glass container and be ready to nibble non-stop till the last crumb is gone!


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



