Pad Thai Kale Chips (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/kale-chips/pad-thai-kale-chips/



	Pad Thai Kale Chips

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Hmm, how to describe these kale chips.  Let me see if I can come up with a few words to express my thoughts about them… tasty, appetizing, scrumptious, yummy, luscious, delectable, mouth-watering, delightful, lovely, wonderful, pleasant, enjoyable, appealing, enchanting, ambrosial, savory, mouth-watering, toothsome, choice, flavorful, wait, wait, there must be more!


Are you Dutch?  Then I say, “heerlijk, kostelijk, overheerlijk!”

Are you French? If so then to you I say, ” dylicieux, savoureux!”

Got a little German in you? “appetitlich, kystlich!”

Let’s not forget the Portuguese, “delicioso!”

Italian? “delizioso, ghiotto, prelibato, squisito!”

Spanish? “delicioso, exquisito, regalado, sabroso!”


 

I am sure there are many more words out there, so I ask that you first run to your kitchen and make up a batch of these mighty fine kale chips, then come back here and share a word or two with us.

Keep in mind, that when I make kale chips, I want a stout chip!  I want substance, I want crunch, I want meatiness to it, so when I make them, I use a thick sauce. You can make this recipe with 3 or 4 heads of kale, depending on how you like them.  OK, go now… have fun and don’t steal too many from the dehydrator as they are drying. haha

Ingredients: 




2 cups raw macadamia nuts, soaked

2 Tbsp raw cashews or pine nuts, soaked

3/4 cup fresh orange juice

1/4 cup raw almond butter

1/4 cup water

2 Tbsp coconut aminos

2 Tbsp maple syrup

1 tsp ground ginger

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 clove garlic, crushed

1/4 tsp cayenne (or to taste)

1/4 tsp Thai Kitchen Red Curry Paste

2 large heads (16 oz) curly  kale





Preparation:

Kale Prep:



Selecting Kale:

Don’t use wilted / old kale, it can have a bitter undertone.

I prefer Curly Kale because all of the folds really hold onto the sauce.




Wash and de-stem your kale.

Start by washing the kale and blotting it dry.  You can also use a salad spinner if you own one.

Make sure you get as much excess water off of the kale as possible.  If you don’t it will make your sauce “soupy”.  Set aside.

Starting at the bottom strip away the leaf leaving behind only the stem.

Tear the remaining leaves into pieces that are a tad larger than bite-size since they tend to shrink.





Sauce Prep:


After soaking the nuts, drain and discard the water.

In a high-powered blender combine the; macadamia nuts, cashews, orange juice, almond butter, water, coconut amino, agave, and spices. Blend until the sauce is creamy smooth.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Create a vortex in the blender; this will help ensure that the sauce is getting fully blended into a creamy texture.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape down the sides.

This process can take 1-3 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm., stop the machine and let it cool, then proceed once cooled.





Assembly:


Place the torn kale into a very large bowl.

Pour in the sauce and with your hands gently and evenly coat each piece of kale.

This is a “hands-on” job.  Stirring with a spoon just doesn’t do the trick.

I would suggest removing any jewelry from your fingers.  I have temporarily lost a ring here and there.





Dehydrator Method:


Have the dehydrator trays ready by lining them with non-stick teflex or parchment paper.

Don’t use wax paper because food tends to stick to it.

Spread all the trays out in advance because soon your hands will be covered in sauce and you don’t want to get it all over.




Place the kale on the non-stick sheets.  You can do this 1 of 2 ways:

Lay each piece out semi-flat if you want to create individual pieces.  More time-consuming and chips tend to be a little bit more fragile.

Or, drop clumps of coated kale on the sheets.  This will create hardy clusters that are loaded with sauce and flavor.  This is my preference.




Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for about 6-8 hrs or until dry.

I tend to pull mine out before it gets 100% dry because I like it a little chewy.

The dry time is just an estimate.  The climate, humidity, dehydrator, and how full the machine is can all affect how long it will take to dry.




Store in an airtight glass container and be ready to nibble non-stop till the last crumb is gone!

If the kale chips start taking on some humidity from the house, you can place them back into the dehydrator for a few hours at 115 degrees (F).


Oven Method:


Please use this as a guide and closely monitor the kale chips as they cook.

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees (F), anything higher, and risk burning the chips.

Line the baking sheet with parchment paper and place the kale chips on the baking sheet in a single layer.

Bake for 10 minutes, rotate the pan, and bake for another 15 minutes.

The bake times will vary based on your oven, but it’s a good starting off point!




Once you pull the tray from the oven, allow the chips to cool on the baking sheet.

Store in an airtight glass container and be ready to nibble non-stop till the last crumb is gone!







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



