Movement "Lifestyle" Challenge
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/movement-lifestyle-challenge/



	Movement “Lifestyle” Challenge

													    
    


				Good day everyone! I hope this posting finds you all well. Today, I put out a challenge on our members Facebook page…. so here I am extending it to you too! I am calling this challenge, “Movement Lifestyle Challenge.” Personally I need encouragement and support in moving my body daily. I am a busy-body in general, but I  don’t take time out of my day to exercise.  Therefore, I am reaching out to all looking for that encouragement and accountability.


So here’s the scoop…

I referred to this challenge as a “lifestyle challenge”… not a two week, one month, six months, or whatever challenge.  I think you can all agree on the importance of movement (daily movement!), but for many people, life, stress, busyness, (insert excuse) keeps us from fully loving and caring for our earthy vessels. Therefore, I think it’s safe to say that this challenge has no expiration date.


I would love for ALL of you to join me… it doesn’t matter what level of exercise you do or can handle… all I ask is that you make a strong daily effort to move your body. Hardly have time even to clean your house? Turn house cleaning into exercise; Vacuum with Vigor, Scrub n’ Squat, Wipe n’ Wiggle! Lol, Love to be outdoors? Weed the flower garden, bending with purpose up and down, up and down, work those quads. This concept gets a well-needed task done, and you get exercise. Walk, jog, run, jump rope, rebound, and/or hula-hoop!

If you have any physical ailments, work with what you have. Do what you can, but do it with intent and purpose. This isn’t a competition as to who is doing what, it’s nothing but gentle, loving encouragement and support. It’s a place for all of us to lean on one another.

I know Nouveauraw is a recipe site… but movement is just as important as the foods we eat, so I felt this was a safe place to seek out others who just want a bit of accountability in bringing intentional daily movement into their routines. So with that said, what do you think? If this interests you, please comment below. You are welcome to share your situation, challenges, encouragement, support, ideas, etc. I ask that we lend a hand of love through it all.


To kick this off, I started today. I moved my body for 30 minutes. I put some upbeat music on and did some rebounding for one song, hula-hooped (with a weighted hula-hoop) for another, rebound for one song, hula-hooped during the next… rinse and repeat for 25 minutes. For the last 5 minutes, I stood on a vibrating machine to shake any tense muscles out. Mr. Milo (the pup) just stared at me with those, “what the heck are you humans up to now?”  eyes. lol

For those of you who are already diligent with movement, please support us and join in. Hope to read some comments below (hint hint). blessings, amie sue


P.S. There is NO pressure in joining the Nouveauraw Members Facebook group (I know many of you don’t do social media) but if you haven’t joined us over there and wish to, click (here). I will be posting my daily movements and interests there, and hopefully, others will follow suit. Actually, some already have. It’s just an excellent way to get more real-time feedback and support.
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



