AmieSue.com
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/amiesue-com/



	AmieSue.com

													    
    


				With Summer behind us and Winter in front of us… I am nestling in comfortably to our new Fall weather.  This is my favorite time of the year. I love the brisk days, the chilly nights, stroking the flame in the fireplace, and all the warm, cozy fabrics that make their way to the front of my closet.  Regardless of what weather pattern greets you today, I hope it is a day filled with gratitude and blessings.

But I am not here to talk about my love for Autumn; the golden floating leaves as they blanket the earth or pumpkin spice that finds its way into everything culinary in my kitchen… no that will follow soon enough I am sure. I am here to share AmieSue.com.



Have I ever told you that I think my husband is brilliant? Well, it is true. He is my number one fan and supporter (in all areas of my life),  especially when it comes to expressing my passions.  NouveauRaw being just one of them.

Nouveauraw.com has been in existence since 2007, and one issue that we find is that we constantly have to repeat the name and  spelling. “What did you say it was? How do you spell that? Do you have a card?”

One day, Bob presented away to eliminate all the confusion regarding the pronunciation and spelling of nouveauraw. So he created the site domain… amiesue.com. Bob set it up so that all one had to do was type in amiesue.com, and they would automatically be routed to nouveauraw.com.  He also has high hopes that one day, I will expand my passions, which might lead to different websites all under amiesue.com.

At first, I squealed with glee; then it quickly dawned on me that there was yet another issue at hand…  I don’t spell my name the most common way that you see it, which is AMY. Now we would be back having to confirm the spelling of my name every time we directed someone to the website. He stepped back, arms crossed in a slightly confident way, with a smile that spread across his face.  With a voice of calm, he said, “I already thought of that. If someone doesn’t know to spell your AMIE, they can type in AMYsue.com and still end up at nouveauraw.com.

Come to find out, my sweet and brilliant Bob has always been busy covering all the angles. Based on how people might misspell the site name, he created domains for the following misspellings… assuring that no matter how one spelled it, they would find me. The man cracks me up in the most positive of ways. hehe

Nouveauraw.com, Neuvoraw.com, Newveauraw.com, Newvoraw.com, Nooveauraw.com, Noovoraw.com, Nouvoraw.com, Nuevoraw.com, Nuveauraw.com, Nuvoraw.com … and now… AmieSue.com and AmySue.com.



Thanks for taking time out of your day to read this. I hope you find it as helpful as I/we do. Have a blessed day, amie sue



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



