My Holiday Gift to You - The Reference Library
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/my-holiday-gift-to-you-the-reference-library/



	My Holiday Gift to YOU – The Reference Library!

													    
    


				Good day everyone,

I have some very exciting news to share with you. After working long and hard on this project, we are finally launching a major new part of NouveauRaw! There are over 100 NEW lessons in this section. You will learn everything from what are the best ingredients and where to shop for them, how to outfit your kitchen like a pro with the best culinary tools, where we get our nutrients, shopping list print outs, a built-in Ingredient Directory will be at your fingertips, the science of flavor balancing and recipe development and ooooh so much more! I know that was one heck of a run-on sentence… give me a little grammar slack, I couldn’t help myself!

Click Here to go to The Reference Library!


		
		
			
				
			
				
				Welcome. Start Here
				
			
				
			
				
				Successfully Transitioning Your Diet
				
			
				
			
				
				Nutrition Basics
				
			
				
			
				
				Recipe Essentials
				

			
				
			
				
				Ingredients (shopping, storing, etc) 
				
			
				
			
				
				Where Our Food Comes From 
				
			
				
			
				
				Recommended Equipment
				
			
				
			
				
				Kitchen Organization
				

			
				
			
				
				Soaking Nuts, Seeds, and Grains
				
			
				
			
				
				Homemade Flours
				
			
				
			
				
				Pastry and Decorating
				
			
				
			
				
				Working with Chocolate
				

			
				
			
				
				Sprouting
				
			
				
			
				
				Quick Nourishing Meal/Snack Ideas
				
			

		

Click Here to go to The Reference Library!

There are 14 categories (as shown above), and as you click on each one, you will find many more lessons within!  These fundamental lessons are the crucial knowledge needed to become the best-plant-based chef! I will be covering techniques, tricks, and tips that will accommodate the novice all the way to those who wish to make a career out of this lifestyle.

As you might notice, Raw Techniques and Raw Ingredients have been removed from the menu bar. That’s because I combined all the new material that I created along with those two categories into the Reference Library.  With over a decade of dedication to this site, the amount of content that I have created can be overwhelming.  This new section will make things easier for sure. And frankly, I don’t want any post to get lost! There are so many nuggets, and gems of valuable information tucked away in every nook and cranny of NouveauRaw (AmieSue.com)

I am so excited to be sharing this new content with my community in the days to come. I will be sending out emails, highlighting each post over the coming months.  These emails will bring each topic to light! So sit back, sip a green smoothie, and enjoy!

Blessings,

Amie Sue

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



