Please Vote - Should Cooked Plant Based Recipes be a part of Nouveauraw
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/please-vote-should-cooked-plant-based-recipes-be-a-part-of-nouveauraw/



	Please Vote – Should Cooked Plant Based Recipes be a part of Nouveauraw

													    
    


				Over the weekend I put a poll in the Private Nouveauraw Facebook Group, as well as on your member’s homepage. I would love to see what you all have to say about the possible idea of me adding cooked plant-based dishes to the site. It is something that has been rolling around in my head for quite some time.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

Over the years, I have received many requests to include a cooked vegan food category to the site.  There is a plethora of vegan cooked sites as well as raw vegan sites out in the worldwide system of computer networks (AKA – Internet)… BUT I would like to think that I have established some confidence in you about how I go about creating recipes, explaining ingredients, teaching new techniques, and sharing about nutrition. Not only do I draw you into my “kitchen” to learn, but I also get to “sit” with you as you place recipes made from the site, down on the table before your loved ones.

While fruits and vegetables are a powerhouse of nutrition, you can unlock some extra nutrients in a few foods by cooking them. For example, cooking tomatoes help to release more of the lycopene found within them. Lightly cooking vegetables to make soup, or steaming fresh greens helps to soften the food and increase the number of nutrients that our bodies can absorb. Through my education, dedication, and passion in the kitchen, I want to add another layer of variety to your menus.


		
		
			
				
			

			
				
			

		

 

Don’t get me wrong…

I would continue to add new raw recipes to the site, clearly separating the two styles of food preparation. So, please don’t get the idea that I would be moving away from raw cuisine. One of our members on Facebook said, “This all raw site feels sacred to me to aspire to.” Two things stood out to me when she shared this.

The first word was sacred. I stopped and really thought about what that meant. Throughout life, we have all had a place that was sacred to us. Perhaps as a child, it was a tree fort or a dollhouse. It might have been that cozy chair where we got lost between the pages of a novel. Maybe it was at the beach, where our eyes met the mystery of the horizon. Or perhaps it was the mountain views, where the clouds constantly move into new and mesmerizing configurations. Special places are memorable, and this has always been my heart for Nouveauraw: to create a space for others to find joy, calmness, laughter, inspiration, encouragement, and support.

The second word to hit home was, aspire. Everyone here comes with their own ambitions as they work towards achieving optimal health. And what that path looks like will differ from person to person.  I want to meet people at all stages of life… to draw them into a world where one can learn that by adding plant-based foods (whether they be raw, cooked, or even combined) it is not only doable, but it is delicious and exciting.

It’s all about YOU.

When it comes to working with whole foods, I want you to gain confidence in your kitchen, help you transition to a healthier nutrient dense lifestyle… all by expanding your skill set and menu options.

What qualifies me to do this?  I got a plastic ball from a gumball machine and inside read a note, “You can do anything!” Ok, let’s try to be serious here. I have trained not only raw vegan cuisine through Living Light, but I am also a graduate of Roubxe Culinary School obtaining a Professional Plant-Based Certification. Along with that, I completed a full year of education with the Institute for Integrative Nutrition where we studied 100 different dietary theories (both vegan and non-vegan). I crave knowledge, I earn to share it,  and I desire to live with passion. Nouveauraw has been a sacred platform for me too and causes me to aspire to become a better me.

So to wrap this up, the purpose of this poll is for me to put my finger on the pulse of our community. Be sure to log on to your membership page and vote. Have a blessed day, amie sue

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



