With a Grateful Heart (my return home)
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/with-a-grateful-heart-my-return-home/



	With a Grateful Heart (my return home)

													    
    


				
Good morning my dear friends. Monday, November 11th at 6:07 pm, as we gathered around Grandma… she departed from our presence in PEACE. I am so grateful for Hospice. She was able to spend the last month of her life, surrounded by the life that she had cultivated.

 



I was honored to spend the past month and a half with Grandma as she embarked upon the journey. A journey of preparing for her separation from her earthly vessel. It felt like the world was accelerating outside of the walls that held Grandma’s last precious moments. Yet it also felt as though each minute of the day was deliberately ticking by, like lazy snowflakes on a still Winter’s day, allowing each of us to celebrate her life in our unique way. Collectively, we cried, laughed, hugged, shared stories, took turns reading Grandma her daily devotionals, sang, and sat in silence.

 

One thing that came to mind as I sat next to Grandma, holding her hand, was that although only one person Grandma was passing, I was witnessing how the mourning process was different for each of us. This comforted my heart because I realize that no two people had the same relationship with Grandma, and it was the loss of that specific relationship that was being mourned. This vision opened my heart so that I might comfort not only myself but those around me.

 

Just hours before she passed, Carrie, her assigned CNA came to the house to check on grandma. Carrie sat beside her and sang Psalms 101 as she caressed her face. With tears streaming down her cheeks, Carrie looked at mom and I and said that Grandma was such a precious woman. She said, “Every time I have come to care for Phylane, she would pray for me.”  Even in her weakest moments, the strength and love that my Grandmother’s heart held for others and for God truly impacted my heart, t.his reminded me of a saying that I had heard.

 

“The Impact Of One Life.”
When a stone is dropped into a lake, its impact leaves behind a series of ripples that broaden
and reach across the water. In the same way, the impact of one life lived for Christ will leave
behind an influence for good that will touch the lives of many others.

 

I will be heading back to Oregon on Sunday the 17th. After some adjusting, I will be back in the swing of things and provide you all with some delicious and nutritious recipes. I can’t even begin to thank each of you enough for the love and support that you have granted me. You gave me a grace period to fully concentrate on my family… you gave me the greatest gift.

 

I also want to thank my sweet, loving, and supportive husband, Bob. He held the fort down in my absence, handled Nouveauraw tech support, and cradled my heart with all the love and support that I needed. We must have talked 10x a day while we were apart. Regularly, he would call to sing to my grandmother on speakerphone.  Those were some of the most tender moments that I will forever have etched into my heart.  I feel so blessed! I feel overwhelmed with blessings (that’s a good feeling to have hehe)

 

Have a blessed day, love and hugs, amie sue


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



