Life Update
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/life-update-2/



	Life Update

													    
    


				Good day everyone. I just did an update in our private Facebook group, and now I am here to give an update to those of you who don’t participate in Social Media. I am sorry that it has taken me a while to get back to everyone’s comments and messages… but I thank you for the bottom of my heart for your patience, understanding, and love.



If you are new to NouveauRaw, I have been away for the past month due to a family emergency. If you wish to read up on that, you can click (here). So for the moment, Grandma is still with us, but she is losing a bit more life with each passing day. Individually and collectively, we have been making such beautiful memories with her during this time of heartache. She isn’t in pain, her mind is slow but sharp, and she is at peace. My mom and I have been filling in the gaps when Hospice isn’t present. And I have to tell you that it is such an honor to care for her as the minutes of each day pass by.


My Grandfather says that my mom and I are like Laurel and Hardy, (you can Google them if you’re not familiar), simply because we are always creating laughter when caring for Grandma. We have our solemn moments, but I find that laughter and joy can still be found in these precious moments. Even in her bed-bound state, she found the energy to, after bathing her, guide me through the process of changing the sheets when a person can’t leave the bed. Her voice was weak, and her lungs hardly had enough air to get the sentences out, but somehow still managed to teach me something new. She said that I was a quick study and learned well.  I will never forget those moments. (P.S. my grandmother was a career CNA – certified nurse’s assistance – so she knows how to care for people.)

Another quick blessing that swoons my heart like no other is the gift of song. One day, my mom asked Grandma if she wanted some music on. Grandma said no. She said she enjoyed music but only certain music. We try not to bombard her with too many questions because she doesn’t have the strength to talk much, so I asked her if she would like to hear a song from Bob (my husband for those who are new here). He had to stay back in Oregon, but we talk on the phone at least 10x a day. She said that she would LOVE that. So I called Bob and asked if he could sing “Hallelujah” her all-time favorite song. You can listen to it here if you aren’t familiar with the song. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRP8d7hhpoQ).

He happily said yes, so I put him on speakerphone so he could sing to her. Grandma laid there with her eyes closed and lips quivering as she sang the song along with him in her heart. Her face became smooth and at peace. Mom cried, I cried, Bob cried. We were all so touched by his rich baritone voice. From that point on, Grandma requests a daily song for Bob to sing to her. Most are hymnals, but Bob did sneak in a Christmas song and a few others. Today, he will be singing, “He Touched Me.” (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Igy7g6BCNO0)

This is the first time in my life that I have been granted the opportunity to be with another person as they start to prepare for the departure from this worldly form. And so far, I have been gifted with the grace to be fully present, to cherish each breath,  and to allow the perfect balance of grief and joy to flood my heart.

I realize that in this particular circumstance that I have received a real gift. A gift to say words that I always meant to say but took for granted, a gift to reminisce over memories that could have long escaped my heart, a gift to care for one who spent a lifetime caring for others, a gift of hearing words of wisdom depart from my grandmothers lips that could have so easily been lost for good, a gift to cry out in grief, joy, and peace.

I am sorry that I have only put out one recipe this month, but if you can find it in your heart to be patient and understanding, in time, I will be back in the kitchen to design some yummy raw recipes for you. blessings and love, amie sue


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



