Noodle Mania!
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/noodle-mania/



	Noodle Mania!

													    
    


				 

Over the past month, I have been buried in veggie noodles. If a hard, rooted veggie sat still long enough, I spiralized it!  My mom was here visiting for the past month and each day I tried to create a new raw dish for her.

She is learning to eat healthier and healthier and I thought veggie noodles would add a lot of excitement into her life. I know I haven’t touched all that there is to spiralize but I did get a good start.  I hope that you find some inspiration through them!    The main dish that really started all of this was my Raw Veggie Noodle Pad Thai dish that I made for her, which she fell in love with.

I hope that you can find some inspiration from these postings.  Check out all the veggies noodles that I have been working on…Noodle Making / Alternatives

 

Tools used to create noodles:

GEFU Spiralfix Spiral Slicer 13410 $49.95


Can be used in the left or right hand.

4 different widths of cut for creative recipes: Spiral cut across the entire width of the material, 3 mm, 6 mm or 12 mm wide adjustable via adjusting wheel

Folding lid for easy filling

Detachable non-slip holding container for safe standing

Material: stainless steel, ABS plastic, SAN

Splash-guard lid with drive unit detachable for easy cleaning. Dishwasher-safe


World Cuisine Tri-Blade Plastic Spiral Vegetable Slicer: Approx. $29




Built for right-handed people.

This slicer comes with 3 different blades that give you 3 completely different textures and shapes.

This is the one used in the photo above.


Spiralizer Ultimate: Approx. $29


This is another type of spiral slicer that gives you some different options, such as angel hair thickness.


Potato Peeler: Approx. $15




Wash and peel the outer skin off of the veggie.

Hold the veggie at one end and in a long stroke motion, run the peeler from top to bottom.

Rotate the veggie in a circular motion and continue peeling until you reach the seeded core (if there is one).  Stop once you reach this.  Don’t throw it away, use it in a smoothie or salad.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



