Life Update
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/life-update-new-vegan-cooked-recipes-coming-on-board/



	Life Update | New Vegan Cooked Recipes Coming on Board!

													    
    


				Come, sit down with me in the Studio. I have something I want to share…

In every situation that I go through in life, I try my darnedest to find the silver lining. What I am about to share is not to diminish or make light of the current world events (COVID-19). People are falling sick and losing their lives. This pandemic is happening at such a rapid pace that most days, I can’t quite wrap my head around it. So, my desire to seek the “silver lining” is to find comfort in the midst of turmoil.

As our world faces extraordinary challenges, Bob and I want to express our deepest support to our whole Nouveauraw community (and those surrounding it) who are also facing and joining the fight against the global spread of COVID-19.

These times are difficult, and we are entering uncharted territory, but together we can continue to exchange, encourage, and care for each other.⁠ I am committed to exploring different ways to uphold our core values, bringing recipes and techniques to you, so we never stop learning and growing. ⁠

⁠

Like most of you, my trips to the grocery store are VERY limited; therefore, my stock of fresh raw produce is also VERY limited. Never again will I take perishable fruits and veggies for granted. I think I have been guilty of that in the past.

It’s been an interesting exercise to find balance in managing our food supply. With produce being perishable, I have to figure out how to keep my produce fresh, using it before it turns, and yet somehow getting it to stretch until the next grocery run (which are now weeks apart). Bob is at high risk–I mean we all are, in reality, but our doctor told Bob to stay home at any cost due to his age and some health stuff he has been overcoming. I’ll be darned if I am going to do anything to put him/us at any higher risk…so I stay home as well.

So for me, during this time, as a recipe developer, I have an opportunity to explore preparing more shelf-stable foods. I am not just referring to dehydrating or freezing raw foods. This is my (our) reality and necessity right now. My goal is always to make every bite count, so I am using techniques that ramp up the nutritional value of each bite. With that being said, I decided to share some of the vegan cooked recipes that I make,  just in case you are in the same predicament.

Many of you have gardens or resources to obtain fresh produce as needed, allowing you to eat a raw diet more freely. For those who do, please be patient and supportive of the work I am putting into the site. I am not veering away from my core values or my passion for providing delicious and nutritious plant-based recipes.

What You Can Expect


The cooked recipes will be separate from the raw food recipe category.

For ease of finding them, we will be adding “Cooked Recipes” to the left sidebar menu.

All cooked recipes will be vegan and gluten-free (just like the raw recipes, with the exception of honey, used every once in a while, which can be substituted with another sweetener).

I will be sharing techniques that make the most of the nutrients in each recipe.

Right now, the recipes I create will be fundamental, full of techniques, and I will be using ingredients that I currently have on hand, which has been a growing and interesting challenge.

Right now, our diets have mainly been focused on vegan, whole food, starchy dishes that don’t have any added fats, oils, or sugars. Therefore, my recipes will reflect that. Bob still enjoys some raw treats, so those will continue to be mixed in. You can always alter the recipes to fit your needs and taste buds. I can’t afford (for many reasons) to make recipes that we can’t eat. Typically, we share with friends a lot of the foods I make, but with social distancing, I have to slow down on the number of recipes I create, so nothing goes to waste. I hope this makes sense.

I will continue to create raw recipes, doing the best with what I have available to me right now. (Wish I had a garden!)




All vegan, whole food, plant-based…coming soon!

Again (I can’t express it enough), please know that my heart is to continue providing you with healthy, whole food, vegan recipes. I genuinely care for each of you and feel so blessed having each of you as an extension of our family. For those of you who also partake of cooked foods, I hope the trust and confidence that I have built with you with my raw recipes (for over a decade) will filter over to the cooked recipes. Even if you have a full understanding of how to cook the foods that I will be talking about, please read through the posts. We all have an opportunity to learn something new… I sure have!

Before I let you go…remember: Social distancing doesn’t mean social disconnecting. Keep in touch, join our private member’s Facebook group for added support and community. This is a time to unite, not separate. blessings and love, amie sue

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



