Peaches, Fruit Flies and Fruit Roll Ups
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/peaches-fruit-flies-and-fruit-roll-ups/



	Peaches, Fruit Flies and Fruit Roll Ups

													    
    


				

Well it’s that time of year again, when peaches are in season.   Well, at least there are here at Oldfather Farms.  They are perfect for picking!  I will soon be sharing some raw peach recipes, but today as I was prepping some for dehydration, I was rudely invaded by … Fruit Flies!  Oy-vey!  I don’t understand where they come from, but they are never late to a fruit party, that is for sure.

After Bob and I spent a little time picking some peaches, I brought them in the house, put them on the counter, went to use to the bathroom, came back and !!!!!! There they all were.  I think they were drunk on peach juice!  It was time to get down and dirty.  I had a trick up my sleeve on how to deal with them, and it was time to pull out the “guns”. In case you haven’t seen my post on fruit flies that I did several years ago… here is a link on How to Deal with Fruit Flies.   There is an easy solution to help you get rid of them.  It still works and we are now fruit fly free.  Shew!

With Fall just around the corner, so is back to school.  I know in some states school has already started but peach fruit leather is a great way to use up those peaches (should they get out of hand) and create school snacks.   Last year, I developed over 60 different fruit leather recipes.   I also did a basic post on How to Make Fruit Leather, if you are looking for any tips.   Also, here are some recipes that I created for fruit leather that included peaches.


Lavender Peach Fruit LeatherPeach Harvest Fruit Leather

Peach Berry Fruit Leather

Peach Cherry Fruit Leather

Maca Cherry and Peach Fruit Leather

Sweet Peach Fruit Leather

Thanks-giving Pumpkin Peach Fruit Leather

Balsamic Vinegar Peppercorn Peach Fruit Leather

Peach Fruit Leather Infused with Pumpkin Spice Tea

Honey Huckleberry Peach Fruit Leather

Blueberry Peach Lavender Fruit Leather

Pumpkin Bliss Fruit Leather

Chili Pepper Peach Fruit Leather

Peach Fruit Leather Infused with Chai Coconut Tea

Summer Harvest Fruit Medley Leather

Peachy Pumpkin Craisin Fruit Leather


And just in case you run out of peaches… there are plenty of other designer fruit leathers that I created.  Check them out here.

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



