Waltz Across Heaven
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/waltz-across-heaven/



	Waltz Across Heaven

													    
    


				






Good morning, as I sit here, it feels like Christmas was months ago, yet it’s only been five days! It’s been a long week, a good one, but a long one. Whether you celebrate the holidays or not, whether they are filled with family or not, I hope you found joy and peace in each passing day. This morning, I wanted to share a touching song with you, but first, let me share a little back story.

 

As many of you already know, I spent a month and a half up in Alaska, cherishing the last days of my grandmother’s life. As her days grew closer to the end, my grandfather shared a precious moment with her before she went to heaven. He played the song Waltz Across Texas by Ernest Tubb for her. You can hear the original song written in 1965 here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6LWduP2F7r8.

 

After the song played to the end, grandpa told her that soon he would meet her in heaven and that they would Waltz Across HEAVEN together. I am told that the two of them were quite the dancers and competed in many different dance forms. For their competitions, my grandfather would sew dresses for grandma and then make a matching shirt for himself. He sewed over fifty dresses for her!



When grandpa shared this with mom and me, he said he wanted to change the words to the song to Waltz Across Heaven cause one day soon, that’s what they would be doing. It wasn’t long after that when grandma passed away.

 

Once I returned home to Oregon, I shared this story with Bob. I told him I wanted to have the song recorded with the change of words and give it to grandpa as a Christmas/birthday gift. (his birthday falls on Dec. 24th).



Bob contacted James the head of our music department with Bookmans, asking if he knew someone who would do this for us. He knew right away and mentioned the band Little Cloud. Their guitar player works for our company, so he reached out to him. They happily agreed and felt honored in recording a song that held such meaning. It’s a father/daughter doing the singing.


I think they did an OUTSTANDING job. On Dec. 16th, they emailed Bob the song. I was up that morning before Bob, sitting out in the living room. From bed, Bob opened the email and played the song throughout the house. I stood up and cried as it played. Bob came out of the bedroom, and we waltzed in the kitchen. Giving the gift of cherished moments is priceless and will linger in our hearts forever. I hope you enjoy the song. blessings, amie sue


 


https://nouveauraw.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Waltz-Across-Heaven.mp3
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



