My Absence due to Family Emergency
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/my-absence-due-to-family-emergency/



	My Absence due to Family Emergency

													    
    


				Good day my fellow health seekers. I just wanted to give you a quick update as to why I haven’t released any new material as of late. I intended to reach out sooner, but it wasn’t till now that I found a spare moment to do so.

My grandmother is in the hospital, facing the end of her life. Her situation came on quick, and I took the earliest flight to Alaska so I could be there with her and my family. I am so blessed to be awarded these moments with her (however long it may be), and I feel such gratitude for the precious moments that I am experiencing with my family as we huddle together in support of one another.

Today, after dropping my grandfather and mother off at the hospital door, I went to park the car. The Fall weather here is cold, it’s been raining nonstop, and the sky is heavy with a mix of clouds and fog.

With my hood up, my scarf tight around my neck, my hands drawn up in the sleeves of my coat, I kept my chin tucked down as I leaned into the rain. Walking briskly with my eyes focused on the ground, I came out of a “daze” (lost in thought) to find myself in the midst of the most beautiful colored leaves that had blanketed the parking lot.

Due to the current situation, I usually stay focused on the tasks at hand, but I was overwhelmed by the beauty that laid before me. I stopped in the middle of the parking lot without looking to see if cars were coming, crouched down in the rain, withdrew my hands to cradle my phone as I took a picture.

“For everything thing… for everyone… there is a Season” these words entered my heart as a smile spread across my lips.

Once I got everyone situated in grandma’s hospital room, I pulled my camera out and told grandma that I took a picture of a leaf. I felt like a little girl who just saw her first puppy. Lol Grandma rolled her eyes at me, and in a sarcastic tone, she found the strength to say, ” OOH BOY! A leaf.” She wasn’t impressed. Lol UNTIL, I held my phone before her eyes. As she looked at the photo, she pulled it close to get a better look… as she studied it, her face softened as she whispered. “ooh isn’t God amazing, that is beautiful!” Grandma WAS impressed after all. :) It’s these small moments that tug at my heart and are burned into memories.

Once I return home, I will be back in touch, but until then, please continue to enjoy the recipes on the site and if you would send some prayers, positive thoughts, positive energy, and/or love our way. blessings and love, amie sue

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



