Being Prepared for Unexpected Guests (the importance of slowing down)
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/being-prepared-for-unexpected-guests-the-importance-of-slowing-down/



	Being Prepared for Unexpected Guests (the importance of slowing down)

													    
    


				Good day, Health Seekers… how is everyone doing? It’s so hard to let it soak in that school has started for most kids, and Sept. is peeking at us just around the corner!



We found out that we will have some (welcomed) unexpected guests with us for 3-4 days. I have been in the midst of tearing the house apart as we purge through items to sell, gift, or donate. And I have been slacking with keeping our fridge, freezer, and pantry stocked (the horror! lol) We have just been so busy that our diets have been so simple lately. BUT thankfully, my ingredient pantry is stocked, so I quickly popped into the studio kitchen and whipped up… (took less than 1 hour)

Winter’s Blend Granola

Six dehydrator trays of Winter’s Blend Granola (added some chopped apple) – https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/granola/winters-blend-granola/

Young Thai Coconut Yogurt

A double batch of Young Thai coconut yogurt (I always stock frozen young Thai coconut meat) – https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/breakfast/young-thai-coconut-yogurt/

Almond Milk

And some fresh almond milk – https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/nut-milk/

Our guests are arriving in 4 hours. The granola and yogurt will be ready for breakfast tomorrow… along with some other foods that I am prepping. It’s easy to let the busyness of life fill us with excuses as to why we don’t have the time to prepare delicious and nutritious foods for our loved ones. To be honest, these thoughts raced through my mind… but thankfully it “raced through” and was gone with the wind! Lol I had to come to terms with the fact that…

The house may not be 100% ready but the love, warmth, and welcomeness that it holds, always is. The things that I thought I HAD to do, no longer hold importance… the gift of sharing our time and love with others IS! I have been gifted a moment to slow down, to relax, to be present. May your days be filled with gifts… learn to see them!

P.S. I am hoping to start doing these quick impromptu blog posts…  I shared so much with our members Facebook group, and much of it doesn’t end here for those who don’t wish to have social media accounts. (I understand hehe)

Sending you all love and hugs, amie sue

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



