Was my account CANCELED? - "No" - Please read carefully
https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/was-my-account-canceled-no-please-read-carefully/



	Was my account CANCELED? – “No” – Please read carefully

													    
    


				Good morning everyone,

Some of you still have questions so I wanted to quickly touch on two things that have been popping up since the announcement that Nouveauraw is changing to the non-membership model as of March 1st. But before I do that, I want to give a special thank you to those of you who have left such heartwarming and supportive words yesterday’s post: and all the wonderful emails too. So, THANK YOU!

CANCELED Account Emails

Many people have questioned why their accounts have been canceled. I am sure this question came to mind due to missing (not reading) the email I sent out sharing the site changes and what to expect but also because the billing programs (PayPal & Stripe) sent out an independent email stating that your account had been canceled. That email was generated because I had to manually stop those services from auto-billing your account from now on. So it’s a good thing on your end. :)

So, all that is to say, you STILL are a member of Nouveauaraw; nothing has changed on your end other than there will no longer be any access charges.. Your account will now read “Transition” if you look at your account page when signed in. Please continue to log into the site as you normally would using your username and password. Come March 1st; you won’t have to because the site will be free to the public.

30-Day Trial Option

I have had several of you feel that you now have to sign up for the 30-day Free Trial that is listed in the menu. This option has always been there but instead, it was a 14-day trial. If you have been a paying member of the site, you don’t need to sign up for this, it is just for visitors who want to check out the site.

It’s been complex converting the site from a paid membership to a free one. I extended the FREE trial to 30 days because I didn’t want visitors to sign up for 14 days then want to join as a paid member when I am trying to unwind all that. I hope that makes sense.

If you haven’t read yesterday’s post about the site changes, please do so! It contains everything you need to know. https://nouveauraw.com/kitchen-diary/huge-changes-to-nouveauraw-please-read/

If you have any further questions, please let me know. I hope this quick message clears up any confusion. blessings, amie sue

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



