Kombucha - Equipment Needed
https://nouveauraw.com/kombucha-learning-center/kombucha-equipment-needed/



	#3 – Kombucha – Equipment Needed

													    
    


				Here is just a quick summary of the equipment that I use and/or recommend.  We all know that starting off with the best quality ingredients makes all the difference in the outcome of a recipe.. the same goes with having the right equipment.

I always want to do my best in setting you up with the right equipment from the get-go so you can have a successful experience. Let me learn from my mistakes, so you don’t have to unless you’re into that kind of thing. hehe

Kombucha making can become a very ceremonial tradition, and as time passes, you will find that there is a wide range of ways kombucha is made.  Don’t let any of this frighten or confuse you. I am laying out the simple basics, and in time you will find your rhythm. We all dance to beat of our own drum, right?!

SCOBY:


SCOBY – Learn how to grow your own (here).

Or purchase one. I recommend (this) one.


Brewing Vessels:


Glass jar – 1 or 2 gallons for batch brewing or

Glass jar with a spigot for continuous brew

Wooden barrel

Stainless steel (grade 304 or higher) vessel

Porcelain or Ceramic vessels

The one I use no longer shows for sale but this (one) is close.


Spigot for Continuous Brew:


You will want a glass container large enough for the amount you desire, and it needs to have a corrosion-resistant spigot. Most glass jars that come with a spigot made of poor quality materials.

The spigot should be made from either wood, stainless steel (304 grade or better, or a professional-grade plastic.

The spigot needs to be removable for cleaning.

I use (this) one.


Optional – add a heating band

Heating Band:


A heating band will help keep your brew at an even, optimal temperature.

If your brew doesn’t hold the right temperature, you will end up with a thin SCOBY, a slow ferment, and even run the risk of the SCOBY falling asleep, stopping the fermenting process.




I use (this) one because it has a digital temperature controller.  You can set the temp you want to band to reach and walk away.

This (one) works too; it just doesn’t come with the digital temp controller, you slide the dimmer up and down to find the sweet spot of temperature.


Thermometer Strip:


To create a healthy brew, you want to monitor its temperature. The adhesive strip thermometer attaches to the side of the vessel letting you just how warm or cool the liquid is.

I use (this) one.


Tightly woven fabric or a coffee filter, rubber band:


Do not use cheesecloth because the holes are too big and fruit flies can squeak through.

Use a breathable cloth that is lint-free.

I use an unbleached coffee filter and a rubber band to secure it.


Long handle spoon:


Needs to be long enough to reach the bottom of the brewing vessel.

It can be wood, plastic, or stainless.


Funnel:


A funnel may be needed for bottling if you are not doing continuous brew kombucha.

It should be stainless steel or good quality food grade plastic.

Click (here) to see the ones I recommend.


Bottling:


Use heavy-duty glass jars that can handle pressure from carbonation. If you don’t plan on doing a second fermentation, then you don’t need to worry so much about this.

Swing-top bottles are perfect. Just make sure you get good quality ones.

Avoid using mason jars.  They don’t hold a seal well, especially if doing a second fermentation.

Avoid plastic containers as they don’t handle acidic liquids well.

Avoid metal lids that may come in contact with the kombucha.

I use the bottles found on (this) page.  Don’t forget to get a bottle cleaning brush!


 

 

 

Let’s Go Shopping

SCOBY


Kombucha Kamp Genuine KOMBUCHA CULTURE (1 Lrg SCOBY + 1 Cup Strong STARTER LIQUID – Makes 1 Gallon)


Brewing Container & Spigot


Home Essentials 2 Gallon Nantucket Drink Dispenser 

1 X Stainless WorksTM Stainless Steel Beverage Dispenser Replacement Spigot(Polished Finish)


Heating Band & Adhesive Temperature Strip


The Kombucha Mamma FERMENT FRIEND Heater with Thermostat

The Kombucha Mamma Year Round Heating System with Dimmer

Adhesive Temperature Strip


Misc. Tools


OXO Good Grips 3-Piece Funnel and Strainer Set

Tiemom Beer Bottle Brush (1)


Nouveauraw.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites – at no extra cost to you.
Thank you for your support! amie sue



What is Kombucha?

Kombucha Continuous Brew Method

Kombucha Maintenance of Continuous Brew

Kombucha – Ingredients Needed

Kombucha SCOBY – Growing from Scratch

Testing Sugar Levels in Kombucha

Bottling Kombucha from a  Continuous Brew

Second Fermentation of Kombucha – Adding Flavor & Effervescence

Kombucha Aesthetics

Kombucha SCOBY Hotel

Dealing with Fruit Flies

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



