Dealing with Fruit Flies
https://nouveauraw.com/kombucha-learning-center/dealing-with-fruit-flies/



	Dealing with Fruit Flies

													    
    


				Why Fruit Flies Arrive

Fruit flies will not show up unless there’s rotting, decaying, or open food in your house for them to eat.  Does the tomato you have sitting on the counter have a small bruise?  That part of it has gone bad, and it can attract fruit flies.

I once had to dig through an entire bushel basket of pears to find one that was slightly bruised way at the bottom.  It was a small black spot, but it attracted a whole swarm of fruit flies.

But their not only attracted to food… drains, trash cans, garbage disposals, empty bottles, cans, trash bags, cleaning rags and mops can also lure them in. Fruit flies would love to call your kitchen their “home, sweet home.” They don’t need an invitation.

Interesting, possibly disturbing facts

Fruit flies can lay up to 500 eggs at a time. All they need is a nice moist surface. When the eggs hatch, the babies find their way to their “food source” and lap up the bacteria and yeast so they can grow big and strong. Why? just so they can produce hundreds more like themselves.

Many people think that the fruit flies come from within the fruit because you often don’t see them until you are home and have the produce unpacked. Sometimes, it might even be a few days before their presence is made known.  This is because larva has been deposited on the produces skin surface, they are then brought to your home and eventually hatch.  This is yet another reason to wash your produce.

Do you brew homemade Kombucha?

If you are brewing your own kombucha, it is vital to keep a breathable lid on the vessel. Cheesecloth is not a good option because fruit flies are so tiny that they can enter through even the smallest of crevices even right through the screen on your windows. That is why I cap my brewing vessel with a non-bleached coffee filter, secure it with a rubber band, and keep a fruit fly catcher nearby. This wasn’t always the case. I never saw fruit flies near my kombucha until… I SAW fruit flies IN my brewing vessel! Whaaa? How did they get there?!  Now, some people, wash their SCOBY off and continue on with life. I, on the other hand, tossed my batch and started over. I just don’t like taking such risks.

There are many different methods on how to handle fruit flies, so if you already have a tried and true method, then stick with it. The most important takeaway here is knowing that there is a way to prevent and deal with them.



Ingredients:


4-6 cups water

2 Tbsp sugar

2 Tbsp white vinegar

2 Tbsp dish detergent


Preparation:


Gently stir all the ingredients together in a glass container.

Put this out on a counter near where the flies are, and soon they’ll be floating on the surface.

If you have a lot of fruit flies in the house, create several of these and place them around areas that are attracting them.

Pour the solution down the drain when it gets full of fruit flies and start the process again.

In the meantime, keep trash areas clean, disinfect the counters, or any other place where sticky hands may leave a residue.

Wash any fruits that may be kept on the counter, or transfer them to the fridge.

If you are brewing kombucha, make sure that you don’t have any sugary tea solution on the outside of the container.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



