Testing Sugar Levels in Kombucha
https://nouveauraw.com/kombucha-learning-center/testing-sugar-levels-in-kombucha/



	#5 – Testing Sugar Levels in Kombucha

													    
    


				

Both Bob and I keep a tight check on our sugar level consumption so when I started brewing my kombucha… it was only right to figure out how I was going to be able to monitor just how much sugar was still in that bottle of mine.

As we have learned through my kombucha series, the sugar in kombucha is for the culture to consume, not for you. But how long you continue the fermentation, will determine the amount of sugar left.

Most unflavored kombucha drinks have roughly 2-6 grams of sugar per 8-ounce glass. By contrast, an 8-ounce glass of orange juice has about 24g of sugar. Natural carrot juices have 13g per 8 ounces.

Refractometer!

I don’t know why but when I say the word “refractometer,” I hear action music in the background. hehe

After talking to Bob about this dilemma, he reminded me that they use what is called a refractometer when testing our cherries and pears for their sugar level content when harvest time nears.

So bless his sweet heart.. he ordered one for me. A refractometer is an instrument used to obtain what is called a Brix reading. This simple hand-held device measures the amount of refraction (or bend) in a beam of light that passes through the liquid.

What is a Brix Scale?

“Brix” is a technical term to measure and quantify the amount that light is bent passing through a fluid. Strictly speaking, the Brix measurement is the determination of the percent of pure sucrose content in water (1 degree Brix = 1g of sucrose in 100g of solution)

It’s an inexpensive and easy piece of equipment, and every Kombucha brewer could benefit from having one. This is the (unit) that I use. It runs around $25. It comes with simple instructions, so no need to be intimidated.


		
		
			
				
			
				
				Place sample on the slide.
				
			
				
			
				
				Close, wait 30 seconds.
				

			
				
			
				
				Look through the viewer
				
			
				
			
				
				And view the sugar content.
				

		

Let’s Go Shopping

Prices are subject to change. I shared the most current price to use as a reference point.



Brix Refractometer for Homebrew Beer Wort, Smarthome SH Dual Scale Automatic Temperature Compensation 0-32% Specific Gravity Hydrometer with ATC – $19.00




 

Nouveauraw.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites – at no extra cost to you.
Thank you for your support! amie sue


Kombucha – Equipment Needed

What is Kombucha?

Bottling Kombucha from a  Continuous Brew

Second Fermentation of Kombucha – Adding Flavor & Effervescence

Kombucha SCOBY – Growing from Scratch

Kombucha – Ingredients Needed

Kombucha Aesthetics

Kombucha Maintenance of Continuous Brew

Kombucha Continuous Brew Method

Kombucha SCOBY Hotel

Dealing with Fruit Flies

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



