Creamy "Seafood" Enchiladas with Béchamel Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/creamy-seafood-enchiladas-with-bechamel-sauce/



	Creamy “Seafood” Enchiladas with Béchamel Sauce

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Creamy Seafood Enchiladas are a tasty twist from traditional enchiladas made with red sauce and ground beef. Of course on this site, you won’t find me using any animal products.  So, how is this done? Through the wonderful, anti-Inflammatory, Iodine-rich power of Kelp!

In its natural state, Kelp is a large seaweed that grows in shallow, underwater forests. In order to grow, it requires nutrient-rich water between 43 and 57 degrees (F). This amazing plant can grow over a foot and a half in 24 hours, eventually reaching lengths of up to 260 feet!  There is a consistently dense line of kelp forests that stretch all the way from Japan, up past Siberia, to Alaska then down the California coastline.

Iodine is a vital nutrient that comes with many incredible health benefits, one being that helps support a healthy thyroid, and it helps in keeping your bones strong due to the high presence of vitamin K. Word of caution here, if you are on blood-thinning drugs, you might need to avoid extra vitamin K, as it can affect how the drugs work… so check with your doctor.

Now granted… I am not using a therapeutic dose in this recipe. I am just shining a little light on it because for some; it can be a great ingredient to get more of in your diet.

Here is a lesson that learned early on, when you remove the lid of the kelp powder… don’t go diving your nose in the container while taking in a deep breath.  You will be reminded of the ocean for the better part of the day. Lol, But then again, maybe that’s your thing.

Let’s move on to the remaining ingredients used in this recipe.  First off, if you don’t have kelp powder on hand, you can use approximately half of a nori sheet instead. Just tear it up and add it to the food processor with the other ingredients that require a good processing.  If you are trying to avoid nuts, use all sunflower seeds. If you are trying to avoid sunflower seeds, use all almonds. If you are trying to avoid sunflower seeds and almonds, use sprouted chickpeas! We have options ladies and gents. :)

This dish will leave you feeling satiated through the healthy macronutrients found in the nuts and seeds, and nourished through the use of fresh whole foods. Your tummy will stand and salute in delight as you fill your belly, bite after bite of this creamy seafood enchilada. Ahoy matey! Enjoy and many blessings, amie sue


Ingredients:

yields 3 (1/2 cup filling each)

Not Tuna filling: 


1/2 cup (169 g) raw almonds, soaked

1/2 cup (88 g) raw sunflower, soaked

1/4 cup (50 g) water

3 Tbsp (40 g) fresh lemon juice

1/2 Tbsp (6 g) kelp powder

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup (50 g) celery, minced

1/4 cup (40 g) red onion, minced

1/4 cup (6 g) fresh parsley, minced

1/2 tsp (1 g) dried dill weed, or 1 Tbsp (2 g) fresh dill weed

3 coconut wraps, homemade or store-bought


Béchamel White Sauce: yields 1 1/4 cups


1 cup (140 g) cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/2 cup (108 g) water or almond milk

1 small clove garlic or 1/8 tsp (<1 g) garlic powder

2 Tbsp (20 g) olive oil

1 Tbsp (10 g) coconut aminos

1 Tbsp (3 g) nutritional yeast

2 Tbsp (16 g) onion granules

1/2 tsp (3 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/8-1/4 tsp (2 g) freshly grated nutmeg

1/4 tsp (2 g) white or black pepper


Preparation:

Not Tuna filling:


In a food processor, fitted with a “S” blade, place the almonds, sunflower seeds, water, lemon juice, kelp, and salt in the processor.  Process until almost paste-like. Put into a bowl.

Or you can use 1 cup (166 g) chickpeas instead of the almonds and sunflower seeds, but cut back on the lemon.  The nut/seed version is my favorite, but it’s great to have options.

If you don’t have kelp powder on hand, you can use 1/2-1 Nori sheet. Tear into small pieces and grind to a powder in a spice or coffee grinder.




Add the minced celery, onion, parsley, and dill.   Mash everything together with a fork.


Assembly:


After either making or purchasing the coconut wraps, lay 3 of them out in front of you.

Place 1/2 cup of filling along the edge closest to you, then start to roll the enchilada. Once you reach the end, drip your finger into water and run it down the edge of the wrap.  This will act as glue to seal the enchilada.

Place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and repeat the process until you have made 3 enchiladas.


Dehydrating:


Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for 1-3 hours.

Once ready, create a bedding of shredded lettuce or cabbage on the plate, place an enchilada in the center, and spoon Béchamel sauce over the top.  Sprinkle diced tomato, avocado, and anything else that wets your whistle and enjoy!

Serve immediately.


Béchamel White Sauce:


After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse them.

In the blender combine the; cashews, garlic, olive oil, coconut aminos, nutritional yeast, onion granules, salt, nutmeg, and white pepper.

Coconut aminos is a substitute for soy sauce. So feel free to use; Braggs aminos, Tamari, etc.

A couple of teaspoons of white chickpea miso is good to add if you have it. I wanted to add it but didn’t have any.




Once creamy, pour into a bowl.  This will keep for roughly 3 days.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				This batch is made with sprouted/cooked chickpeas.
				
			
				
			
				
				Process to this texture. 
				

			
				
			
				
				Add the other ingredients…
				
			
				
			
				
				And mix well.
				

			
				
			
				
				Or you can make with almonds & sunflower seeds. This is my favorite way.
				
			
				
			
				
				The texture ought to look like this.
				

			
				
			
				
				Add the remaining ingredients…
				
			
				
			
				
				And mix well.
				

			
				
			
				
				Place 1/2 cup of mixture on the coconut wrap.
				
			
				
			
				
				Fold the short end over, then continue to roll.
				

			
				
			
				
				Flatten them out, pressing the filling all the way to the edges. 
				
			
				
			
				
				I put the enchiladas and sauce in the dehydrator for 1 hour to warm them through.
				

		

 

Then I served Bob his dinner


		
		
			
				
			
				
				Day 1
				
			
				
			
				
				Day 2 leftovers
				

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



