Raw Sweet Potato Noodles with Spicy Almond Sauce
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/sweet-potato-noodles-with-spicy-almond-sauce/



	Sweet Potato Noodles with Spicy Almond Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I whipped this recipe into submission for my mom the other day while she was here visiting.   I love her open-mindedness to all things orange or noodlized (that’s my word, and I am sticking to it!)

I only used two veggies in this dish, but you could really get creative and add all sorts of wonderful things to it.  Sometimes simplicity is a good thing that really allows the flavors of the individual veggies to shine through.   Salads like this are

Salads like this are great for using up leftover ingredients from the fridge.    As long as you have a good sauce, you are golden.  And speaking of sauce,  the one that I am sharing below is a little sweet and a little spicy.   A perfect balance.

I have been enjoying sweet potatoes quite a bit in the last few months.  Baked, raw, roasted… they are just gosh darn good.   One day, I would like to grow some in my yard.  I’ve never have had a garden, and it’s about time that I do.  My mom and dad always had one so why did I need to when all I had to do was raid theirs. hehe  But now we live thousands of miles apart so it’s time for me to do something about that…. I know I will MOVE mom and dad here! :)

My dad used to grow potatoes and I tell you what, digging up potatoes brought me the greatest joy.  I am not sure why, perhaps because it was like opening a present.  You couldn’t see what you were going to get until you started digging in.  For hours I would dig them up and with each one, I would hold it high in the air and yell, “Mom, dad, check this one out!”   They just sat on the porch and laughed at me.   Maybe I can talk my dad into planting sweet potatoes and then I can fly there and dig them up for him. :)

If you are a white spud connoisseur only and have yet to really dabble with sweet potatoes, now is your chance.   They appear to be much healthier for you.  Sweet potatoes and potatoes contain dietary fiber, an indigestible carbohydrate that helps you feel full after a meal. Each cup of white potato provides 1.8 grams of fiber, while an equivalent serving of sweet potato provides 4 grams. Choose sweet potatoes to maximize your dietary fiber intake. (source).  Also, white potatoes are not good for eating raw.

Sweet potato and white potato differ drastically in their vitamin A content. Sweet potatoes are among the richest sources of beta-carotene, a nutrient your body converts to vitamin A after consumption. Each cup of chopped sweet potato provides 18,869 IU’s of vitamin A, compared to only 6 IU in white potato.  Here is the key…  Always serve your sweet potatoes along with a source of fat to facilitate vitamin A absorption… the vitamin dissolves in the fat from your meal, then gets absorbed by your intestines along with fat droplets.  That is why I paired this dish with a sauce containing a healthy fat in the form of almond butter.  I hope you enjoy this recipe and have a blessed day, amie sue

Ingredients:

Serves 2


1 sweet potato, spiralized  (2 cups, packed)

1 cup chopped sugar peas


Sauce:


1/4 cup raw almond butter

2 Tbsp gluten-free Tamari  or Braggs aminos

1 Tbsp Eden red wine vinegar or raw apple cider vinegar

1 Tbsp raw agave nectar

2 tsp organic chili sauce (Sriracha)

2 tsp toasted sesame oil


Preparation:


In a small bowl combine the almond butter, tamari, vinegar, agave, chili sauce, and oil.  Mix well.  The sauce will be thick.  If you wish for your sauce to be thinner, just add a little water.

Coat the noodles and sugar snap peas with the sauce and enjoy!


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



