Chia Quinoa Kheer (Indian Rice Pudding)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/chia-quinoa-kheer-indian-rice-pudding/



	Chia Quinoa Kheer (Indian Rice Pudding)

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

What is Kheer?  Darn, I was hoping you could tell me… one sec, let me Google it… Alright, what I found out is that it is a rice pudding made by boiling rice or broken wheat with milk and sugar, and flavored with cardamom, raisins, saffron, and either cashews, pistachios or almonds.

It is typically served during a meal or also consumed alone as a dessert.  Right up my alley!  A guiltless dessert!  I am learning new stuff every day, and I love it!   After viewing the cooked version, I decided that it would be easy enough to convert to raw.

Personally, I cooked my quinoa because my body digests it better.  But that is just me.  You can easily make this recipe with sprouted quinoa.  That is the beauty of eating healthy; you can modify recipes to work uniquely for you!

To be honest,  this dish alone would be a fantastic meal for me.  I have never been one of those eaters that need three or four different foods in a meal.  I always have kind of been a mono eater in many ways.  To give you an idea, many years ago when I was working in the home medical equipment field, I use to bring my own lunches to work.  Every day for one and half years, for .56 cents a day (yep, I figured it out) I ate instant grits with a spoonful of peanut butter and raisins!  I loved it and never tired of it. Ahh, those were the days. haha

Anyway, this dish reminds me of rice pudding along with all the wonderful textures of crunchy nuts and chewy raisins.  The spices meld together in the milk and trust me after that last bite, I promise you, you will be raising that bowl to your lips to get that very last drop!  Not that I have done that… who me?  hehe,  Enjoy.  Oh, if you can’t eat nuts you can replace them with sunflower or pumpkin seeds if you would like.

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups

Prepare quinoa:


1 cup cooked or sprout quinoa


Add in:


3 Tbsp raw agave syrup or 1 tsp liquid stevia

1/2 tsp vanilla extract

1 Tbsp chia seeds

3 Tbsp chopped raw almonds

3 Tbsp chopped raw pistachios

3/4 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp ground nutmeg

1/4 cup raisins

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


When serving:


Coconut or almond cream




 Preparation:


Cook or Sprout quinoa:

Cook ~  Rinse quinoa till water runs clear.  Combine milk and quinoa in a medium-sized saucepan. Bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 15 minutes or until most of the liquid is absorbed. Turn off heat and let stand covered 5 minutes.

Sprout ~ to make 2 cups finished product, put 1 1/3 cup of quinoa in a jar.  Add 2-3 times as much cool (60-70 degree) water.  Mix quinoa up to assure even water contact for all.  Soak for 20-30 minutes.  Then drain off the soak water, rinse well and drain.  Place a mesh lid on the jar and set anywhere out of direct sunlight and at room temperature (70° is optimal).  Rinse and drain again every 8-12 hours until tails are formed.  Now it is ready to use.




After cooking or sprouting, stir together the agave, vanilla, chia seeds, almonds, pistachios, cinnamon, nutmeg, and raisins.  Add the desired amount of coconut or almond cream.  In as little as 30 minutes or so the chia will have absorbed all the liquid, and you’ll have a pudding.  You can always add more cream like I did.  Top with additional nuts and raisins if you wish.






© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



