Balsamic Caramelized Onions
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/balsamic-caramelized-onions/



	Balsamic Caramelized Onions

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Over the years, I have shared a few recipes that use balsamic vinegar.  This is not a raw product, but it is much-loved in our house. It is a dark, glossy, sweetly sour, condiment that is wonderful for almost anything.  One thing that Bob and  I have learned over time is that not all balsamic are the same.

 This is definitely one of those foods that unfortunately the more you spend, the better it tastes.  Try to avoid any balsamic kinds of vinegar that have caramel coloring or added sweeteners.   The very best balsamic have grape must as the only ingredient, however, that is usually too expensive for most recipes.

Ok, Amie Sue, I sliced and cried over my onions, I marinated them, and I just finished dehydrating them, now what?   I am glad that you asked, here are some ideas.

Salads: Caramelized onions add great texture and flavor to just about any type of salad.  Here are a few ideas…


Marinated Broccoli and Mushroom Stir Fry

Three Green Salad

Sesame Broccoli Salad

Zesty Lime Corn Salad


Sandwiches: A layer of these tender onions are perfect for veggie burgers and sandwiches.  Turn something simple into something decadent.


Nut-less Veggie Burgers

Not Tuna Sandwich


Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups


3 lbs white onions

3/4 cup olive oil

3/4 cup balsamic vinegar


Preparation:


Slice all the onions into 1/4″ slices.  A mandolin comes in handy for this.  Place in a large bowl.

Whisk together the olive oil and balsamic vinegar.

Pour over the onions and with your hand’s mix and mix and mix.  Be sure to coat each onion.

Cover and place in refrigerator for 24 hours to marinate.

Place a mesh colander inside of a large bowl and drain the marinade sauce off the onions.

Place the onions on the teflex dehydrator sheets and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 (F) for 4-6 hours.  Or until they soften and take on a cooked appearance.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



