Sweet Pea Arugula Pesto (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/sweet-pea-arugula-pesto/



	Sweet Pea Arugula Pesto

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Fresh peas come in and out of season very quickly, and if I am not careful, they slip by undetected. That is what happened here.  I had a hankering for some sweet peas, but they had already come and gone from the produce section at the store.

So I reverted to the freezer section where I found some wonderful organic sweet peas. My golden rule is to shop on along the edges of the store where the more fresh foods are.

Luckily, the health food section of our grocery store is tucked up into the corner of the store.  This puts the healthy frozen foods on the outskirts of the store. Shew… venturing into those center aisles is nothing to sneeze at.

Fresh is always the best option, but I don’t mind using frozen from time to time.  Plus, I tend to turn to frozen veggies or fruits when conventional ones are only available. I would rather lose a little nutrients due to the freezing, then ingest fresh pesticides, etc.

I knew when I made this recipe that I wanted some quick, something easy and something NOW! :) I had some fresh arugula that I thought would pair well with the sweetness of the peas.  Along with a few simple spices, I was able to create a fresh, light pesto that is oil and nut-free… within seconds. Who says that raw foods can’t be fast foods?

I served it up on a piece of my Buttery Walnut Flatbread. I spread some raw Sweet and Spicy Mustard on top of the flatbread, followed by a bed of fresh arugula, then added a generous dollop of this pesto on top. Truly amazing.  The lightness of the pesto brought this snack into complete harmony.  Sweet peas, peppery arugula, spicy mustard… all balanced on the buttery flatbread. The natural fats found in the walnuts really grounded the whole experience.  Excuse me; I have to go have another one. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 1/4 cup


1 1/4 cup (255 g) sweet peas

2 cups arugula

1 tsp ground cumin

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp ground black pepper


Preparation:


Place the peas, arugula, cumin, salt, and pepper in the food processor and process to a paste.

Enjoy right away and store leftovers in the fridge for a few days.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



