Sweet and Spicy Asian Bloomed Wild Rice
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/sweet-and-spicy-asian-bloomed-wild-rice/



	Sweet and Spicy Asian Bloomed Wild Rice

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

What in tarnation is bloomed rice? Well, I am glad that you asked. It’s a simple preparation technique in which the rice kernels open up like a beautiful flower, making it more palatable. There are several ways to go about it.

The first way is to place the wild rice in a jar and submerging it in water. You then let it soak for 2-3 days, changing the water twice daily. You’ll know it’s ready when it’s opened up, starts to curl, and is still quite chewy. Depending on how the wild rice is processed impacts its ability to ‘bloom’ properly.

Pressed for time and want to reduce it to about 24 hours? If you own a box dehydrator, such as the Excalibur or Sedona, place the bowl or jar inside, setting the temperature to 115 degrees (F) for 24 hours. Remove the jar from the dehydrator, strain the bloomed rice, and rinse well.

There is another similar method in which I take it one step further by “scoring” the rice.  Click (here) to read more about it. No matter what method you use,  bloomed rice will store in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 weeks in a water-filled jar. Change the filtered water daily to maintain freshness.

But what there’s more!

You can skip the wild rice and use Forbidden Black Rice. It produces a more consistent, soft texture in only 12 hours of soaking while again, the Wild Rice can take up to 3 days and tends to sprout unevenly. Lastly, I know… so many options! You can cook the rice. I still recommend soaking it overnight to help reduce as much phytic acid as possible, plus you have the added bonus of it cooking quicker.

So is Bloomed Rice Raw?

Wild Rice is harvested according to traditional methods practiced by First Nations peoples which involve parching the rice to remove the chaff. At this point, it isn’t raw.  I have read mixed messages about Forbidden Black Rice when it comes to whether or not it is raw. After experimenting with both, I prefer the Forbidden rice because the results were consistently fluffy, takes less time, and it’s a living food product filled with enzymes and life force!  But don’t get me wrong, wild rice also comes with benefits. It is also a nutritional powerhouse boasting high amounts of protein, folate, manganese, zinc, and fiber.   Blessing, amie sue

Ingredients:


1 1/2 cup wild rice, bloomed or cooked

1/4 cup celery, diced

2 green onion, thinly sliced

3/4 cup carrot, shredded

1 cup mung sprouts

2 Tbsp sesame seeds

1 1/2 Tbsp minced cilantro, packed

2 shiitake or button mushrooms, thinly sliced

2 tsp onion powder

1 clove garlic, minced

1 1/2 tsp lemon juice

2 1/2 Tbsp toasted sesame oil

1-2 Tbsp raw agave nectar (to taste)

2 tsp tamari

2 tsp light miso

1-2 tsp Sriracha sauce (to taste) & optional, not raw


Preparation:


Bloom or cooked the rice.  Read here on how to bloom it if that is your preference.

Drain the rice well and put it into a large bowl. Add the celery, green onion, carrot, sesame seeds, cilantro, mushrooms, onion powder, and garlic, and stir.

Combine the lemon juice, oils, tamari, miso, and sriracha in a small bowl, and whisk to blend.

Add the lemon oil mixture to the rice mixture and stir again, thoroughly.

Serve immediately or store in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to four days.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



