Toasted Sesame Broccoli Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/toasted-sesame-broccoli-salad/



	Toasted Sesame Broccoli Salad

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I was one of those odd kids growing up who loved her veggies.  If you couldn’t find me, it was always a safe bet to check the garden.  I was like a pesky rabbit who was always nibbling on the fresh produce. I am so thankful that I never grew out of that. :)

If you are hungry for a little Asian flare, this fresh broccoli salad just might be the ticket. The creamy, sweet and nutty flavor of the toasted sesame dressing really pops against the fresh veggies. This salad is light and refreshing and can be enjoyed as a side salad, or it can be the meal.

Raw Broccoli?

As with most things out there in “Google Land, others” there is a ton of information about broccoli.  Reading about it is much like watching a tennis game.  The “ball” goes back and forth as to whether or not it is healthier or better for you to eat broccoli raw or lightly steamed.  Those with thyroid issues should limit them; others say that it isn’t an issue.  The ball is in your court to decide.

For me personally, I think the key is moderation and to learn how to listen to your body.  I am learning more and more that to maintain my health; I need to eat a large array foods so I can get the nutrients I  need.

It is best to add a rainbow of color in your diet, and at the end of the rainbow, you will find a leprechaun sitting in a pot of fresh, colorful veggies. :)  The more color (variety of fresh produce) the better chance of getting all the vitamins we need.  I eat a high percentage of raw but not 100%.  Well, some days are 100% but not all the time.  For me, I am ok with that.  Everyone has to find what works for them.  Anyway, enough of that.  This recipe turned out yummy and darn-it I am going to enjoy it! Haha, I encourage you to give this Toasted Sesame Broccoli Salad a try tonight, and if you do, please share with us what you think!

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 12 cups


10 cups broccoli florets

1 cup sliced tomatoes

1/3 cup sliced almonds

1/3 cup raisins or dried cranberries

3 Spring onions, thinly-sliced

1-2 tsp white sesame seeds


Dressing:


1/4 cup Braggs Aminos

3 Tbsp toasted sesame oil

1/4 cup raw apple cider vinegar

1/4 cup raw honey or sweetener of choice

1/4 cup tahini butter

1/2 tsp ground black pepper


Preparation:


Break the broccoli into small florets. Place florets in a large bowl and set aside.

When I make raw broccoli salads I like to remove as much as the stem as possible so the florets will soften with the sauce.

Don’t throw away the stems, they hold a lot of flavor and nutrients. Use them in flax crackers or juice them.

Blanch the broccoli in hot water for 30 seconds. This will brighten the color without cooking it.




In a small bowl combine the Braggs Aminos, oil, vinegar, sweetener, sesame seeds, salt, and pepper.  Whisk together to taste it, adjust ingredients to your liking.

I used toasted sesame oil, which isn’t raw, but I am ok with that.

I used raw honey in my recipe. If you decide on another sweetener make sure that it is liquid so it mixed well. Also, note that different sweeteners will affect the overall taste of the dressing.




Pour ingredients over the broccoli and toss together until well coated.

Store in fridge in a sealed container.  This salad will last several days.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



