Fiesta Mac'N'Cheese
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/fiesta-mac-n-cheese/



	Fiesta Mac ‘n’ Cheese

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free nut-free ~

I loved macaroni and cheese growing up.  I ate it in any shape or form.  Out of a box, in a box, brand name, generic name, but oooooh Great Grandma’s!  Now that was the best of the best.  Great Grandma’s mac ‘n’ cheese.  Ummm, Ummm!  It makes me lick my lips as I type this.

Spending the summers with my great grandparents was always a treat.  They lived in a very tiny town so I had the free reign to roam the streets for endless hours….because IF I ever did anything that resembled mischief (MEEE? I think not :) Myrtle, Phyllis, Gertrude, Mr. George…were always there with peering eyes, ready to call Great Grandma letting her know my status.

Anyway, back to her Mac ‘n’ Cheese…. Every day I woke up to the 8 o’clock town whistle.  Yep, this town blew a large horn indicating when it was 8 a.m., 12 noon and 6 p.m.  After having my breakfast, dancing in place while I placed my dishes in the sink, Grandma would ask me what Bonita and I would like for lunch (Bonita, was my dear friend) and every day I answered, “Mac ‘n’ Cheese Grandma, Mac ‘n’ Cheese!”  I don’t know why she even asked, it was my daily request.  She then told me to go outside and play and play is just what I did!  I was a tomboy at heart, and it was common to find me up a tree or sitting in a mud puddle.

Come to the 12-noon whistle; we were ready for lunch.  Bonita and I would come a’ running through the doors and hastily swing ourselves onto the dining room chairs, giddy, chattering about our adventures and ready for our favorite dish.  Grandma made her Mac ‘n’ Cheese from scratch, and it always had extra cheese sauce remaining in the bottom of the bowl when all the noodles were gone.  After slurping up that last noodle, we raised our bowls as if toasting one another and licked our bowls clean.  Wiped our chins and we were off running!

Goodness, I got a bit carried away in my story there, sorry about that.  I was transported back in time. :)  So as I was making this recipe, I was flooded with these wonderful memories.  This sauce doesn’t quite taste like Great Grandma’s did but the process of creating this cheesy sauce was enough to remind of those good ole’ days.  It would be awesome as a dip too, just omit the water.

For my noodles I used zucchini.  I have two different spiralizers that I use, but you don’t have to own one to make zucchini noodles.  You can simply just use your potato peeler.  Below, you will see some of the different types of noodles that you can make.

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups sauce


2 Tbsp tamari

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1 red bell pepper, chopped

1 cup hemp seeds

4-6 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1/2 Tbsp chili powder

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp garlic powder

1/8 tsp cayenne pepper

1/8 tsp turmeric powder

1 clove garlic

1/4 cup water – if needed)

Fresh thyme, sprinkled within

2-4 medium zucchini’s, spiralized


Preparation:

Noodles:


After spiralizing the noodles, place them in a shallow baking dish, spreading them out.  Sprinkle with a liberal amount of salt and set aside.

The salting process will help draw the liquid out of the noodles, making them limp-like.  You will start to see them sweat and then release puddles of liquid.

Once done soaking, place them in a colander and rinse them with hot water.

You can warm the noodles before serving by placing them in the dehydrator at 115 degrees (F) for about 15 minutes or until it reaches the level of warmth that you desire.





Sauce:


In the blender combine tamari, lemon juice, hemp seeds, nutritional yeast, bell pepper, and spices.  Blend until creamy.

Only add water if needed or if you desire a thin sauce.

Instead of tamari, you can also use coconut aminos, Braggs aminos or any other soy sauce substitute that you use.

If you don’t care for hemp seeds, you can replace them with soaked cashews.  This will make the sauce even more creamy.




Once ready spoon some sauce onto the noodles, coating them.  I enjoyed garnishing this dish with fresh thyme.









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



