Creamed Corn
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/creamed-corn/



	Creamed Corn (version #2)

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Sweet and tender kernels of corn coated in a creamy cashew sauce… oh how I love thee! Growing up, I would eat creamed corn straight out of the can, no heat required and utensils were optional.

To me, a bowl of creamed corn is like a hug for your stomach, warm, comforting, and slightly sweet.

Corn is naturally sweet.

Corn is naturally sweet, but sometimes it needs a little nudge. I use either raw agave or maple syrup, which can and should be adjusted depending on the sweetness of the corn you’re using. It’s always best to start out with less, adding as needed. Some corn is sweeter than others.

Warming Raw Food

To warm the cream corn, place in a glass bowl and slide it into the dehydrator.  You will need an Excalibur or equivalent to be able to fit a bowl inside.   To speed up the process, you can spread the cream corn on a plate, this way a larger amount of the surface will be exposed to the warm air. If you just have a circular machine with trays that stack on top of one another, you can spread the corn on the dehydrator try and warm it that way. Set at 145 degrees for 30-60 minutes. You can also use a saucepan on the stove top.   Keep a watchful eye on it, so it doesn’t get too warm if raw is your priority.

Organic, Non-GMO Corn

Be sure to buy the best corn that you can … always look for organic.  If you can’t find fresh organic corn, go to the freezer aisle, and you will find it there.  Be sure to thaw and drain the corn if you use frozen for this recipe. Otherwise, it will be too watery.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

yields 3 1/2 -4 cups


1 1/4 cups cashews, soaked two+ hours

1/2 cup almond milk

1 Tbsp coconut oil, melted

2 tsp raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3 cups organic corn kernels

1/4 cup sweet onion, diced


Preparation:


Soak the cashews in 3 cups of water for at least two hours.

The soaking process will reduce the phytic acid, making it easier to digest.

It also softens the cashews so they will blend creamy smooth.

Once done soaking, drain and discard the water.




In the blender combine the cashews, almond milk, coconut oil, sweetener, and salt.  Blend until the sauce is completely smooth in texture.

Add corn and onion, pulse 3-4 times.  You don’t want to break the corn down too much, but you want to break the kernels. Pour into a bowl.

Place in the dehydrator for 1 hour at 145 degrees.

Store leftovers in the fridge for up to 3 days.

After storing if it starts to dry out a little, add a tablespoon of almond milk and stir.  Add more if needed.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



