Broccoli Raisin Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/broccoli-raisin-salad/



	Broccoli Raisin Salad

													    
    


				Broccoli Raisin Salad


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

To be honest, I haven’t been dabbling around with salad recipes for quite a while.  It’s not that they don’t interest me, I guess I have just been lazy in writing them down as a recipe.

When I want a salad I just clean out the fridge and throw something together.  But lately, I have been craving veggies that are adorned in a beautiful setting of multiple ingredients.

Have you ever had the cooked version of the Broccoli Raisin Salad? I remember them at just about every family pot-luck.  It is delicious, but if you are wanting to stay raw or just eat better, the recipe below fits the bill and satisfies the taste buds.  The original cooked recipe contains dairy and bacon…you won’t find that here, but you will find flavor!

One day I made a huge Three Green Salad and this salad.  I dished both up for my sweetheart’s lunch. He ended up mixing the two and FELL IN LOVE with the combination!  So keep that in mind if you want to create another variation of these combined salads.

In this recipe, I used an MCT oil which stands for, medium-chain triglyceride. It is derived from coconut oil and sometimes palm oil.  MCT oils are a special class of fats that are digested and handled by the body in a different way than most fats.   Coconut oil is also a medium-chain triglyceride oil.

This oil is absorbed directly into your liver where it is metabolized and acts more like a carbohydrate, providing instant and sustained energy for your body.   It is also known as an excellent tool to use in losing weight and in maintaining your optimal weight.  It does this by boosting your metabolism and helping to optimize the production of thyroid hormones.  Diabetics could benefit from using MCT oil as it helps to regulate blood sugar levels

There is a lot of information on the web about MCT oils, so if interested, I encourage you to do some more reading.  There are so many other health benefits to it and knowledge is power! (source, source)

To add a little pop of “wow” to the plate, I sprinkled some micro greens on the salad and snuggled in an avocado rose. I hope you enjoy the recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 7 cups

Dressing:


1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp Cold-Press Olive Oil

2 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

3/4 cup water

2 Tbsp shallot or onion

1 clove garlic

2 Tbsp raw agave (see below regarding raisin water)

2 Tbsp prepared mustard

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Salad:


6 cups chopped broccoli

1 cup red onion, chopped

1 cup raisins or dried cranberries

1 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked  & dehydrated


Preparation:

Dressing:


Combine all of the ingredients in a high-powered blender.  Blend till it becomes a smooth and creamy sauce.  This is where soaking the cashews come into play.  They blend so much better when they have been soaked.


Salad:


In a large bowl combine; broccoli, raisins, onion, and sunflower seeds. Toss gently until well mixed.

Pour the dressing over the salad and mix until well cooperated.


Suggestions:


You can soak the raisins in purified water if you want to soften and plump them up.  You could then in return use that “raisin soaking water” in the dressing to sweeten it up a bit.  If you use the raisin water, you might be able to cut out some of the agave.  Just depends on how sweet you like things.

Broccoli – I got a really good deal on a 2lb bag of pre-cut floret broccoli.  This bag will provide 12 cups of broccoli, so if you want to double this recipe, this is an easy way to have the right amount on hand.  I went through the bag and cut all the stems off, leaving just the broccoli flower for this salad.  Don’t throw the stems away!!  They work wonderfully in flax crackers, or you can just eat them.  The stems actually have a lot of flavor; they’re just not as attractive.  I love that with raw foods that there isn’t any waste!





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



