Marinated Cauliflower "Potato" Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/marinated-cauliflower-potato-salad/



	Marinated Cauliflower “Potato” Salad

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Ah, potato salad.  This traditional dish is one that I do indeed miss and get a craving for from time to time.  My mother makes a mean bowl of potato salad, but it has been years since I last enjoyed a bowl or two or three.

Now, I am not even hinting that this recipe tastes just like her potato salad, that would just be… wrong!  But, I will say, that this brings back the fond memories of mom’s famous dish.

The key ingredient in this recipe that replaces the famous spud is cauliflower!  I have learned that cauliflower is a very versatile veggie and it is gaining popularity.

I do have to say that I usually eat it lightly steamed because, in the raw form, it is a bit tough on my digestive system, but I made this dish with raw cauliflower for Bob, and he loved it.   He did share with me that it is very filling, so keep that in mind when you are trying to decide how much to make.

I also found that I had some extra sauce leftover which was fine., I just kept it in a bottle in the fridge.  On the second day of serving the salad, I added a bit more as it started to dry up a bit.  Then I thinned the rest out to use as a salad dressing.

Ingredients:

Yields 4 cups

Cauliflower marinade: 


4 cups cauliflower florets (2 medium-large heads)

3 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp cold-pressed olive oil

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Add-ins:


1/4 cup diced onions

1 red pepper, finely diced or 4 oz jar sliced pimentos

1/2 cup sliced celery stalks

2 Tbsp chives


Sauce: yields 2 cups


1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hours

1 medium zucchini, peeled and rough chopped

2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

2 tsp spicy stone ground mustard

1 -2 Tbsp fresh or dried dill

1 tsp ground turmeric

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt1 tsp garlic powder

1 tsp onion powder

3/4 tsp smoked paprika

1/2 tsp black pepper

1/2 cup water, as needed to blend


Preparation:

Cauliflower: 2 methods


Refrigerator Method:

Break the cauliflower down into bite-sized florets.  Place in a large bowl and add lemon juice, olive oil, and salt.  Toss until the cauliflower is well coated.

Place in a gallon-sized ziplock bag, press out the excess air and allow it to marinate overnight in the fridge.

This process made the cauliflower more crunchy, light and bright in flavor.




Dehydrator Method:

Break the cauliflower down into bite-sized florets.  Place in a large bowl and add lemon juice, olive oil, and salt.  Toss until the cauliflower is well coated.

Place in a gallon-sized ziplock bag or a covered glass bowl, press out the excess air (if using a bag) and dehydrate at 115 degrees F for 8 hours.

This process made the cauliflower more on the soft side and seemed to be more savory in flavor.




Place the cashews, zucchini,  lemon juice, vinegar, mustard, dill, turmeric, salt, garlic powder, onion powder, paprika, and black pepper into a powerful or high-speed blender, combine, adding water as needed, until very smooth.  Place in the fridge while you prepare the rest of the salad.

Place the cauliflower in a colander so the excess liquid can drain.  Be sure to do this over another bowl, plate or in the sink.

In a medium-sized bowl add the onions, red pepper, celery, and chives.  Add the cauliflower.  Toss together.

Add sauce and stir together, so everything gets coated.

Chill in the refrigerator for 1 hour before serving.  This salad should last 2-3 days in the fridge.






© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



