Kelp Noodles with Almond Butter Miso Sauce Kelp Noodles with Almond Butter Miso Sauce
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/kelp-noodles-with-almond-butter-miso-sauce/



	Kelp Noodles with Almond Butter Miso Sauce

													    
    


				
Kelp noodles are a seaweed-based noodle that is high in iodine, very low in calories, low in carbs, and high in fiber. Kelp noodles come in a package, and you can buy them at many health food stores or online. If you like your noodles crunchy, no preparation is required. If you want a softer noodle (much like spaghetti noodles), make sure that you don’t skip the softening technique that I shared below.



From the moment that I made this dish, I fell in love with it. As soon as I licked my plate clean (the sauce is that good), I was already dreaming of when I could make it again. It’s very filling and can be enjoyed at room temp, chilled, or even warmed up on a chilly day. Again, as mentioned above, the key is to soak the noodles properly to get that perfect noodle texture.

I remember when I first discovered these noodles, it wasn’t long after I got into the whole food way of eating. I was told to soak them in water with lemon or some acid to soften them, but that never really worked all that well. I think it was some sort of Jedi mind trick. Regardless, I ate them anyway. You know how it sounds in your head when you eat chips or crackers? It’s as if everyone within a block proximity can hear you eat? Well, when I ate these noodles, they crunched with an unsettling squeakiness that didn’t leave me really wanting more.

Kelp Noodles are a treasure from the sea!

So, what exactly are Kelp Noodles? Well, they are not really “noodles” at all, at least not in the traditional sense. They’re made from raw edible kelp seaweed, specifically from the thin colorless inner layer under the kelp’s outer skin. These thin, noodle-shaped strips of kelp are preserved in natural seaweed-derived salt (called sodium alginate).

Why I used Kelp Noodles

They are vegan, low-carb, zero-calorie, gluten-free, alkalizing, have 11 vitamins, 16 amino acids, and 46 minerals! The essential nutrients include iodine, iron, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, vitamin A, antioxidants, and B-complex vitamins. They have a neutral flavor that goes perfectly with just about anything. They taste great with pesto, cashew alfredo, raw marinara, or any other wide variety of sauces. I don’t recommend eating them every day because they can add too much iodine into your diet (especially if you have thyroid issues), and they can cause some stomach discomfort. BUT they are a great addition to cycle into your menu planning. I hope you enjoy this simple, delicious, and nutritious dish. blessings, amie sue

Ingredients

Yields: 2-3 servings

Noodles:




1 bag kelp noodles (12oz bag)

2 tsp baking soda

1/2 lemon, juiced




Sauce:




3 Tbsp almond butter

2-3 Tbsp water


1 Tbsp coconut aminos


1 Tbsp chickpea miso


1 Tbsp nutritional yeast


1/4 tsp garlic powder

1/4 tsp onion powder

1 Tbsp apple cider vinegar

1/8 tsp Himalayan salt



Preparation:

Noodles:


Drain, rinse and place noodles in a medium-sized bowl.

In a small bowl, stir together 2 tsp baking soda and lemon juice. It will foam up, which is a normal reaction.

Add this to kelp noodles along with enough water to cover the noodles.

Stir and allow to sit while you make the sauce.


Sauce:


In the Magic Bullet blender (which is what I used), combine and blend the sauce ingredients.

If you don’t have a small blender, you can mix this with a whisk. I prefer blending it to get it nice and creamy.

Feel free to use any nut butter or tahini. Each one will alter the flavor, but it would make for a nice variety of flavors. If interested, I provided a link above on how to make your own almond butter.

Coconut aminos is a soy sauce substitution. You can use Braggs aminos and gluten-free tamari as well.

Make sure you use NUTRITIONAL YEAST and not baking yeast. HUGE difference. I found Red Star is the best-tasting brand.

If you can’t find chickpea miso, you can leave it out, and the recipe is just as tasty.




Toss the sauce with the noodles and plate.

You can dice the avocado to put on top and create something fancy with it.

I topped with a few sliced almonds, cilantro, and a few drops of Siracha sauce.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



