Black Bean and Mushroom Burger (raw, vegan,nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/black-bean-mushroom-burger/



	Black Bean and Mushroom Burger

													    
    


				
~ vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Just in case you have been on the search for a burger that contains: iron, phosphorous, calcium, magnesium, manganese, copper, zinc, fiber, folate, vitamin B6, selenium, potassium, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin D, and more… there is no need to look further.

 

In this recipe, I have pulled in two ingredients that are cooked… black beans and mushrooms.  Black beans shouldn’t be eaten raw, as they are very hard on the digestive system. It is best to sprout them, then cook them. To learn how to sprout them, click (here).


Remember a while back when I shared the health benefits of prebiotics? If you missed it, I touched on it briefly in the Cultured Strawberry Mint Cheesecake.  Well, black beans are naturally considered a prebiotic.

 

To really ramp up the nutritional benefits, be sure to top this lovely burger with a scoop of raw Caraway and Dill Sauerkraut. Pre and probiotics work together in unison.

Raw or Cooked Mushrooms?

Many people eat mushrooms raw, but there are some reports that indicate that they might be healthier if lightly cooked.
Increase Nutrients…

Raw mushrooms are known to contain small amounts of toxins, including some compounds (such as agaratine) that are considered carcinogens. (1) “Dr. Andrew Weil advises, “Mushrooms have very tough cell walls and are essentially indigestible if you don’t cook them. Thoroughly heating them releases the nutrients they contain, including protein, B vitamins, and minerals, as well as a wide range of novel compounds not found in other foods,” (Prevention, Feb 1, 2013).
Increase Flavor…

If you are new to mushrooms or have enjoyed raw mushrooms in the past,  try them cooked.  They take on a whole new taste and texture which might be more satisfying to your taste buds and perhaps easier to digest. Also, try button mushrooms since they are the youngest and mildest flavored ones.  Cooking them may also leave you with a happy tummy.  The cell walls of mushrooms can be difficult for some people to digest, causing severe intestinal distress if eaten raw. If you wish to learn more about this, do some Googling… it’s important that we continue to learn about the foods we eat.
Baking option:

P.S. I have included a baking option for those of you who don’t own a dehydrator.  You are still light years ahead of purchasing commercially processed foods.  So I am proud of you for being here.  I do recommend that you invest in one when you can as it will open up a whole new culinary world to you.  :) I highly recommend the 9 tray Excalibur dehydrator.
Ingredients:

yields 16 patties (1/4 cup each)


1/4 cup coconut amino or equivalent

2 tsp liquid smoke

10 drop liquid NuNatural stevia

2 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

4 cups (242 g) organic portobello mushroom caps, blanched

1 cup (102 g) raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1 cup (176 g) sprouted, cooked black beans

1/2 cup (120 g) chopped carrots

1/2 cup (100 g) chopped celery

1/3 cup (70 g) diced onion

Flax egg – 1 Tbsp ground flax seeds + 3 Tbsp water

1 tsp dried rosemary

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:

Prepare the mushrooms:


Look for firm mushrooms. The gills of the mushroom should be bright, dry, and firm with no signs of sponginess.

To wash; either quickly rinse and then pat dry or, brush or wipe with a damp cloth to remove any soil that may be clinging to them.

Trim off any damaged stalks.

Blanch for 30-60 seconds in boiling water, remove and slice.  Slicing them will expose more surface area to the marinating liquid.

In a medium-sized bowl, whisk together the coconut amino, liquid smoke, vinegar, and stevia. Then add in the mushrooms, making sure to coat all of the pieces of mushrooms.  Set aside for 2 hours.

Blanching them will make them easier to digest, marinating them will help develop some nice rich flavors.

If you plan on baking the patties, you can skip the blanching part.

Coconut animos is similar to soy sauce.  Feel free to use Tamari, Braggs Aminos, or any other soy sauce-like liquid.

Instead of stevia, you can use any liquid sweetener, roughly 1 Tbsp.




In the food processor, fitted with the S blade, combine the sunflower seeds, black beans, carrots, celery, onion, flax egg, rosemary, and salt. Process to a slightly creamy texture.  Leave some texture.

To make the flax egg, combine the ground flax and water.  Stir and set aside for 10 minutes for it to thicken. This will become a binder for the burger patty.




Drain and reserve the marinade liquid from the mushrooms.

Add to the food processor along with 2 Tbsp of the marinade liquid, the carrots, celery, and onions.

Pulse together creating a semi-pate texture.  It needs to be blended enough to hold together when pressed into a patty, as well as leaving a little texture.




Shape into patties and place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F)  for 2 hours, flip, and keep dehydrating for another 3-4, or until they’re the texture you like.


Baking option:


Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and place the patties at least 1” apart.

Bake for about 30 minutes, then flip them over.  Continue to bake for another 15 minutes.

Often ovens run at different temperatures regardless of what the dial says so please check in on the patties about every 15 minutes for the first time around.

Document the time it takes for the next tray or batch.











My goal with this photo was to show you the end texture.



Ready for the dehydrator…



Ready for the oven….



Out of the oven and ready to be enjoyed.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



