Raw Southern Creamed Corn
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/southern-creamed-corn/



	Southern Creamed Corn

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Southern Creamed Corn… is an old-time favorite that was introduced to me back in my 20’s.  I friend of mine, who was from the South, used to make her version of creamed corn by melting a stick of cream cheese in a saucepan with fresh corn.  It quickly became a favorite of mine.  Since I don’t do dairy, it has been years since I have had any, but that doesn’t stop me from thinking about how delicious it tasted.

A few days ago I decided that I would just go ahead and make my own version but dairy-free and use raw ingredients.  I took one bite, and that’s all she wrote.  It was like my tummy relaxed, kicked her feet up, put her hands behind her head and smiled up at me with that look in her eye that said, “Feed me more!”

I make an abundance of raw food in our home.  Every day Bob is exposed to some new creation that I made in the kitchen and most of the time, he loves each everyone.  Even with that success rate, I still get nervous with when I ask him to sample a new dish. This time was no different.  I worried that he might look at me like I had fallen off the beaten path. I slid the spoon into his mouth, he chewed, swallowed and asked for a bowl.    Hallelujah and pass the corn!

This recipe is very creamy and rich, so a little bit is quite satisfying.  I added a teaspoon of agave to compliment the sweetness of the corn.  This is optional.  Some corn is sweeter than others, so taste test before you add any.

Be sure that you don’t skip the soaking process of the cashews. Not only does this soften the nut, so it blends super creamy, but it makes it easier to digest.

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups


3 cups organic sweet yellow corn kernels, (4 large ears)

1/2  cup cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 tsp raw agave

1/2 cup water

1/4 tsp fresh cracked black pepper

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 tsp fresh minced parsley


Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse.  Place in blender.

Add 1 cup of corn kernels, water, agave, pepper, and salt.  Blend until smooth.  Pour into a bowl.

Add the remaining 2 cups of corn and minced parsley.  Mix well.

Serve at room temp or warm in the dehydrator at 115 degrees (F) for 30 + minutes, until warm to touch.

Keep leftovers stored in the fridge for 2-3 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



