Raw Cauliflower Mash
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/cauliflower-mash/



	Cauliflower Mash

													    
    


				

I love cauliflower regardless of how it is prepared but I know, for some people, the taste of cauliflower can be quite strong… but not to worry there are tricks around this. Some of the suggestions are not 100% raw, but you can choose to use the technique that best matches your journey in healthy eating.
 


The “strong” taste that I am referring to can also be interpreted as bitterness.   Before I share a few techniques… where does this bitterness come from? Cauliflower contains phytonutrients that release pungent sulfur compounds when heated.  The specific compound that makes cauliflower bitter is phenylthiocarbamide, also known as PTC.  Some people are genetically more sensitive to PTC. (source)

 

When preparing this dish, I added cashews and cold-pressed olive oil, both of which are healthy fats.  They not only add a creaminess to the overall dish, but the fat helps to calm down the bitterness as well.

 

Another way to reduce the bitterness is by lightly blanching cauliflower.  Place the cauliflower florets in a bowl, cover with boiling water for about 45 seconds.  Drain and rinse in cold water to stop the cooking process.
 


If all else fails and you still find cauliflower too bitter for your liking, you just might be what they refer to as a Supertaster.  It is estimated that 25% of us are supertasters. A cape and skin-tight leotard come with this title.  All this means is that you have inherited a higher-than-normal number of taste buds and are typically more sensitive to strong, bitter foods.  Such as raw broccoli, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, cabbage, grapefruit juice,  dark chocolate, coffee, etc.  You just may struggle with such foods regardless of how they are prepared.

 

Another option is to steam the cauliflower.   To mellow the flavor, soak the entire head (leaves removed) in cold, salted water for 30 minutes before steaming.  Some of the bitter components will leach out.  Soaking cauliflower will also give your cauliflower a snow-white appearance.  Be sure not to steam for no longer than five minutes.  The short cooking time will limit the odorous sulfur released.
How to Select Cauliflower


Look at the leaves surrounding the head if you’re picking it fresh.   They should be vibrant and green, wilted or browning leaves can mean the cauliflower is no longer fresh and starting to go bad.

Next, check out the color of the cauliflower, white is the most common color, followed by light green, pale orange and even purple.  Should you stumble upon brown or yellow, it could mean the head of cauliflower is bad and not as hip as the other fun colors.

Touch the cauliflower, it should be spongy and firm to the touch, soft indicates another indication that it is going bad.


Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


1 lb (4 cups) chopped cauliflower florets

1/2 cup cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2 Tbsp water

1 Tbsp cold-pressed olive oil

1 tsp fresh thyme

1/2 tsp garlic powder

1/2 tsp onion powder

1/4 tsp sea salt

1/2 tsp black pepper



Preparation:

Raw Cauliflower Version



Remove the outer leaves from the cauliflower and cut away the large stem.  Wash and pat dry.  Rough chop and place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade,  and pulse until the cauliflower reaches a rice-like texture.

After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soak water.  Add the cashews to the food processor along with the water, olive oil, thyme, garlic powder, onion powder, salt, and pepper.  Process until creamy.

Enjoy at room temperature or warm in the dehydrator at 115 degrees (F) for 1 hour or until warm to touch.

Store leftovers in the fridge for 2-3 days.


Steam Method for Cauliflower | Stove Top


If you own an Instant Pot, click (here) to see a super quick and easy way to steam the whole head of cauliflower in one fail swoop.

Otherwise, wash the cauliflower, remove the core, and cut it into uniform-sized pieces (so they cook evening.)

Add about one inch of water to a large pot and bring to a boil.

Once the water comes to a boil, place the cauliflower florets into the steamer basket, put it into the pot and cover.

Turn the heat to medium and let steam until fork-tender, roughly 20 to 30 minutes. They must be fully cooked, or else it won’t blend creamy.

After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soak water.  Add the cashews to the food processor along with the water, olive oil, thyme, garlic powder, onion powder, salt, and pepper.  Process until creamy.

Store leftovers in the fridge for 2-3 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



