Fish Sandwiches (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/fish-sandwiches/



	Fish Sandwiches

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Did the title of this recipe “hook” you? I am guessing it did because you are here. I just want you to know that you are the only thing that was “reeled” in. Nobody went fishing here… no fish were used, period.

But, regardless, this does taste like a fish sandwich. Thanks to a small amount of kelp powder which does come from the sea.  I try to use it in recipes because it helps to enhance thyroid function. It is also packed with vitamins and minerals.

To build your “fish sandwich” I recommend a few of my raw bread recipes, all of which can be formed into buns.  The Sourdough Buns or the Veggie Burger Buns.

No “fish” sandwich is complete without raw tartar sauce so be sure to make some of this as well. I hope you thoroughly enjoy this recipe. Please let me know down below in the comment section. I love hearing from you. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 20 patties




1 cup raw almonds, soaked

1 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1/2 cup celery, minced

1/2 cup red onion, minced

1/4 cup fresh lime juice

1 Tbsp + 1 tsp kelp powder

1 tsp coconut aminos

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp dried dill weed or 1 Tbsp fresh dill weed

1/2 cup water


“Breading”: yields 1 1/4 cups


1/2 cup raw cashews

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

1 tsp smoked paprika

1 tsp smoked Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp fresh ground black pepper

1 tsp nutritional yeast


Preparation:


After soaking the almonds and sunflower seeds, drain and rinse them.   Place them in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until they break down to a paste.

Add the celery, onion, lime juice, kelp powder, aminos, salt, and dill. Process until blended.  Stop and scrape the sides down occasionally.

While the food processor is running, drizzle in the water – adding only enough to make the paste nice and moist.   Place in a bowl.

To make the breading, grind the cashews in the food processor to a small crumb size.  Don’t over-process, as this will start to release the oils and we don’t want that.

Add the ground flax seeds, paprika, salt, pepper, and yeast.  Pulse together and pour into a rectangular container.

Measure out 2 Tbsp of “fish batter” (boy does that sound weird to say) and shape it into patties.  Then coat with the breading and place on the mesh sheet that comes with your dehydrator.   Continue until all the batter is used.  You can even make patties instead if you wish.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour then reduce heat to 115 degrees and continue drying for 4 -6 hours.  Don’t dry these too much that they get hard… fish patties are moist.

Store leftovers in the fridge for up to 5 days.  You can reheat them by placing them back in the dehydrator for a little while.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



