Raw Spicy Fiesta Corn Dip
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/spicy-fiesta-corn-dip/



	Spicy Fiesta Corn Dip

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Light, refreshing, slightly sweet almost describes this dish, but in the end, it is more like a fiesta party in your mouth.

Corn often gets a bad rap because most of it is GMO (genetically modified organism). There are many health questions about these techniques and how it affects food.  But if you do your homework you can find NON-GMO corn.

For this recipe, I wasn’t able to find organic corn on the cob at the time, so I used organic frozen corn.  I use the brand, Woodstock which is GMO-free. As always, I encourage you to use the best ingredients that are available to you. :)

Learning to eat a healthy clean diet is a step by step process.  Some people can jump right into it with both feet, but others require putting one steady foot in front of the other.  I support you, wherever you might be in your journey.  Using corn as an example, since this is our main ingredient… moving from canned corn to fresh is one step.  Then choosing organic over conventional is another step.  It is all a process. And the more you practice these steps, the more it will become a habit in your shopping.  Next time you head to the grocery store, keep these following tips in mind.”


Choose Certified Organic Products: Organic foods are prohibited from being made with biotechnology (GMOs). The USDA Organic seal is verification that the ingredients used are non-GMO, even if the package does not separately call out the ingredients as such. Products labeled as “Made with organic ingredients” also cannot be made with GMOs. You can verify organic certification by checking the fact panel for a ‘certified by’ statement.  One quick rule-of-thumb: A product can be non-GMO without being organic, but a product can’t  be organic without being non-GMO.

Choose products with non-GMO Labeling: Third-party verification organizations, like the Non-GMO Project, for example, audit and verify a product for further assurance. For more information about the verification process, visit the Non-GMO Project website.


Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups


2 cups organic sweet corn

1 cup finely chopped yellow onions

1/2 cup finely chopped red bell peppers

1/4 cup chopped green onions (green and white parts)

1 jalapeño, seeded and minced

1/2 tsp garlic powder

1/2 cup raw vegan mayonnaise 

1 Tbsp sriracha chili sauce

2 tsp fresh lemon juice

1 Tbsp dried chives

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp black pepper

1 tsp raw agave nectar or maple syrup


Preparation:


In a medium mixing bowl, combine the corn, onion, red pepper, green onion, jalapeño, and garlic.   Stir together until everything is evenly dispersed.

In a small bowl whip together the mayonnaise, sriracha, lemon juice, chives, salt, pepper, and agave.  Pour over the corn mix and stir together.

Add the cilantro and toss together.  Top with a bit of extra cilantro and a dash of cayenne.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



