Caramelized Onions (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/caramelized-onions/



	Caramelized Onions

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This past week I was “gifted” over 10 lbs of gorgeous, milky white onions.  I have been wanting to test my hand at caramelizing them, so I figured there was not a better time than the present.  And having a mandolin is definitely a godsend for this project!

It only took two onions before my eyes started to burn.  Through the haze of tears, I stepped back and looked at all those onions… oy-vey!  I have heard dozens of tricks when it comes to slicing onions, but only a few came to mind.  Running cold water and cutting near the flowing water was one.  I started that but decided that was just a waste of water. :P

Onion goggles!  Didn’t have any, so I put my sunglasses on.  Hold a piece of bread in your mouth. Hey, these were desperate times that called for desperate measures.  I always keep a loaf of gluten-free bread in the freezer for Bob, so I pulled a piece out and shoved it in my mouth.

So there I stood, in my kitchen… dark sunglasses on and a piece of bread hanging from my lips. I was a sight for sure.  But guess what, it worked, something worked because the tears went away and I sliced every last onion!

Here is some interesting info… I started with 3 lbs of fresh onions which sliced into 10 cups of onions, which after marinating and dehydrating became 5 cups of onions.  :)

Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups


3 lbs white onions

3/4 cup cold-pressed olive oil

3/4 cup Tamari or Braggs Aminos

3/4 cup maple syrup or raw honey


Preparation:


Slice all the onions into 1/4″ slices.  A mandolin comes in handy for this.  Place in a large bowl.

Whisk together, olive oil, Tamari, and sweetener.

Pour over the onions and with your hand’s mix and mix and mix.  Be sure to coat each onion.

Cover and place in refrigerator for 24 hours to marinate.


Drying method #1:


Create a “bowl” with the non-stick teflex sheet.  See photo below.

Place the onions and liquid in the “bowl.”  The liquid will evaporate as it dries.

Dry at 115 degrees (F) for 4-6 hours.  Or until they soften and take on a cooked appearance.  Stir occasionally during the drying cycle.


Drying method #2:


Place the onions and liquid in 2 large ziplock bags.  Burp the air out and place in the dehydrator.

Dry at 115 degrees (F) for 4-6 hours.  Or until they soften and take on a cooked appearance.  Stir occasionally during the drying cycle.

Place a mesh colander inside of a large bowl and drain the marinade sauce from onions.  Keep the sauce for other recipes.



Want to make a smaller amount…

Ingredients:

yields approx. 1 2/3 cups


1 lb (5 large) white onions

1/4 cup olive oil

1/4 cup water

1/4 cup Tamari or Braggs Aminos

1/4 cup raw agave nectar or raw honey




		
		
			
				
			
				
				Drying Option #1
				
			
				
			
				
				Drying Option #2
				
			
				
			
				
				Don’t they looked cooked!
				

		



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



