Raw "Not Tuna - but close! - Sandwich"
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/not-tuna-but-close/



	Not Tuna – but close! – Sandwich

													    
    


				Not Tuna – but close! – Sandwich


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Before you wrinkle your nose at the idea of eating a dish that tastes like it has seafood in but doesn’t.. give this recipe a try and allow me to help you “see food” in a different way!

Not Tuna (but close!) Sandwich… The title may seem like a hard sell, but I will admit that this is one of my favorites!  I had seen the recipe many times over prior to attending raw culinary school.  It just never caught the taste buds in my imagination.  How can something taste like tuna when it is all raw, made from nuts and no meat added?

While we were at school, we often ate downstairs in the Living Light Cafe.  They made Not Tuna Salad sandwiches.  I LOVED them, and so did Bob.  I even started to request the Not Tuna to be added on top of my green salads; the flavor was so delicious.

So, this week I ventured to make this Not Tuna.  I thought it would be a great staple for the week.  We have been serving it on the Almond Toast and also in the corn tortilla wraps.  My mother even said that she would love to have it as a dip for veggies.  So as you can see, it is pretty darn versatile.  In the pictures that I share here, I used my Raw Red Bell Pepper Wrap, which can be found (here).

So just what gives it that “fish of the sea” taste?  The secret is kelp powder.  Kelp is mostly taken for its naturally high iodine content, which helps the functioning of the thyroid gland. It is essential for the formation of thyroid hormones, which regulate the body’s energy production, promote growth and development, and help burn excess fat. There are many other excellent health benefits, but I will stop right there because we need to get busy in the kitchen! Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields: 3/4 cup (3 servings)


1/2 cup raw almonds, soaked

1/2 cup raw sunflower, soaked

1/4 cup water

1/4 cup celery, minced

1/4 cup red onion, minced

1/4 cup fresh parsley, minced

3 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1/2 Tbsp kelp powder

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp dried dill weed or 1/2 Tbsp fresh dill weed


Preparation:


After the almonds and sunflower seeds are done soaking, drain, rinse and discard the soak water.

There are several ways to proceed… you can use a blender, small-bowled food processor or Champion juicer.


Blender:


Place the soaked almonds, sunflower seeds and water in the blender.  Process until almost paste-like and put into a bowl.

If you have a Vitamix with the tamper, you will want to use this to make sure all the nuts and seeds get into the blade.

If you don’t have a Vitamix, you will need to stop the until several times to scrape down the sides and move the mixture towards the blades.




Add the celery, onion, parsley, lemon juice, kelp powder, salt, and dill.   Mash everything together with a fork, making sure that the spices get evenly distributed.

Enjoy.  Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-5 days.


Food processor:


Only use a food processor if you have a small bowled one, the amount of nuts and seeds really isn’t enough to get processed in a large bowl.

Place the soaked almonds, sunflower seeds and water in the processor.  Process until almost paste-like and put into a bowl.

Add the celery, onion, parsley, lemon juice, kelp powder, salt, and dill.   Mash everything together with a fork, making sure that the spices get evenly distributed.

Enjoy.  Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-5 days.


Champion juicer:


Run the almonds and sunflower seeds through a Champion or Green juicer outfitted with the homogenizing plate.  Use very small amounts of water, in an alternating fashion with the nuts and seeds, to facilitate the homogenizing. See option below if you don’t own such a juicer.

Add the celery, onion, parsley, lemon juice, kelp powder, salt, and dill.   Mash everything together with a fork, making sure that the spices get evenly distributed.

Enjoy.  Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-5 days.


Variations:


Not Salmon; add 1/2 cup carrot pulp for color and dill weed to taste.

Not Tuna Crackers; Put 3/4 cup of Not Tuna Salad on top of a nori sheet, and spread an even 1/8-inch layer right to the edges.  Place another nori sheet on top, press into place, and slice evenly into 12 squares.  Dehydrate at 105 degrees until crisp.


Amie Sue’s Notes:


Kelp powder – you can find this at a health food store.  I looked at our local grocery stores and couldn’t find it.  You could use dulse flakes instead if you can’t find the kelp powder or if you want a stronger flavor.  We ended up using both.

Crudités basically means veggie tray. Crudités are traditional French appetizers compromised of sliced or whole raw vegetables which are dipped in a vinaigrette or another dipping sauce. Crudités often include celery sticks, carrot sticks, bell pepper strips, broccoli, cauliflower and asparagus spears.  I had never heard that word before school.  I figure I can’t be the only person out there who is unfamiliar with that word…am I? hehe


 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



