Sautéed Mushrooms (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/sauteed-mushrooms/



	Sautéed Mushrooms

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

There are few things in the world lovelier than warm, “buttery” sautéed mushrooms. This is coming from a woman who avoided them like the plague for the first 35 years of her life. It wasn’t till I started dabbling with raw foods that I started to get a taste for them… craving actually.  Never underestimate your taste buds.  They can do a 360-degree turn on you when you not even looking.

I will be honest in saying that I don’t care for them raw, as in, grab a mushroom and pop it in my mouth raw.  I love them sautéed on the stove top, cooked in foods or sautéed they way that I am sharing with you today.  The fact that I am even talking about this is a miracle. Just ask my parents who use to find piles of uneaten mushrooms hiding under my plate.

Have you noticed any changes in your taste buds since eating high raw?  Have you found yourself liking foods that you use banish to he-double hockey sticks? Another change for me is that my sense of smell is that of a hound dog.  But that’s not just with eating high raw… eating a clean diet in general for me gives me my CSI-investigative-hound-dog-sense-of-smell capabilities.

It’s difficult to believe that by tossing mushrooms with minimal seasonings and dehydrating them for a few hours, that they can achieve such depth and complexity of flavors.   For an even deeper flavor add a splash balsamic vinegar to them. (not raw)

The key is to make sure that you don’t over dry the mushrooms, causing them to… well… dry out. As my little sister likes to say, “no Bueno”  The raw coconut amigos (you can use any soy substitute) helps to boost the “meaty” flavor that truly cooked mushrooms take on when sautéed in a hot pan. Even though it has a salty flavor, I still added some Himalayan salt to them for softening, but please use your judgment and be careful to not over salt. The oil is also important for this process so don’t skip it.

These mushrooms can be enjoyed on sandwiches, in salads, paired with a raw marinara sauce or eaten as is.  Enjoy, amie sue

Ingredients:


16 oz sliced white mushrooms

2 Tbsp raw coconut amino

1 Tbsp cold-press olive oil

Pinch Himalayan pink salt

Pinch black pepper


Preparation:


I don’t wash mushrooms; I rub them lightly with damp paper towels.

Place the mushrooms and coconut amino in a medium-size bowl, tossing them, making sure all the mushrooms are well coated

Place in the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry till fully wilted/ cooked.

Store leftovers in the fridge in an airtight container for a few days.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



