Ground Nutburger (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/ground-nutburger/



	Ground Nutburger

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Trying to mimic a meat product.  *shakes head*  Tough one and often just the mere thought might not sound very appealing.  But I must say that this recipe came out just right and was what we were in the mood for.

This nutbuger has the look, flavor, and texture of ground beef.  Well, as close as I can get anyway. :)  The mushrooms and Tamari give a real earthy and hearty flavor.   And sometimes that flavor note is just what is needed to create a comforting, feel-good dinner.

I used cremini mushrooms for this recipe.  Also known as; crimini mushroom, Italian brown mushroom, Italian mushroom, or just brown mushrooms.   They are closely related to common white mushrooms but are a bit more flavorful.

Large cremini mushrooms are called portobello mushrooms.  So, if you can’t find the little nubby guys, you can use the larger portobellos, white mushrooms or shiitake mushrooms.

Growing up I use to pick every speck of mushroom out of the foods served to me.  Just didn’t like them one bit.  But after I introduced the raw food diet into my life my taste buds changed, and now I so enjoy them.

I don’t think people stop and give them enough credit for having great health benefits.  Crimini mushrooms are an excellent source of 18 different vitamins, minerals, and antioxidant phytonutrients.  They say that in order to maximize their flavor and the retention of nutrients it is important to not to overcook them.   I guess I don’t need to worry about that now do I. hehe   Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields 3 1/2 cups




1/4 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup raw pumpkin seeds, soaked  & dehydrated

2 small garlic cloves, minced

1 1/2 tsp fresh cracked black pepper

1 Tbsp dried minced onions

2 tsp gluten-free Tamari

2 cups mushrooms

1 cup raw walnuts, soaked


Preparation:


In a spice/coffee grinder, grind the sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds to a flour.  Place in a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.

Add the garlic, pepper, and dried onions.  Pulse together.

Add Tamari, mushrooms, and walnuts.  Pulse again until the mushrooms and walnuts are small chunks (resembles ground beef).

Eat right away and store leftovers in the fridge for 2-3 days.

Tip: I used soaked and dehydrated walnuts because I already had them in my fridge.  If you don’t, you use just soaked walnuts,  be sure to drain, rinse and discard the soak water.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



