Vegan Avocado Guacamole Deviled “Eggs"
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/avocado-guacamole-deviled-eggs/



	Avocado Guacamole Deviled “Eggs”

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe will add a different splash of color to your Sunday morning brunch menu.  Rather than the standard yellow yokes that are usually piped into egg whites,  I decided to mix things up and use guacamole.

Avocados, much like bananas, mature on the tree but ripen only after their harvest. Once ripe, they turn dark green or deep purple and yield to gentle pressure. Inside, they have a cream color flesh with a butter-like consistency.

One trick that I use when selecting avocados at the grocery store is that I pop the little stem button off.  If there is a nice bright green color under it, it is ripe and ready for use.  I have tried to “squeeze” technique, but my best luck comes from the stem plucking. :)

It may be ideal always to buy organic, but you don’t have to with avocados. So far none are GMO, and the Environmental Working Group (EWG) has non-organic avocados in their “clean 15” list with mostly no detectable pesticide residue (http://www.ewg.org/foodnews/).

Avocados often receive a bad rap for being too high in fat. While it is true that avocados are a high-fat food (about 85% of its calories come from fat), they are nutrient-dense calories, and the fat contained in avocado provides many health benefits.

Avocados have an abundance of plant phytonutrient polyphenols and flavonoids, which have been discovered as anti-inflammatory agents.  They help keep inflammation under control, which is considered the basis of most non-contagious diseases.  Nutrients and enzymes in avocados also help to reduce inflammation in the stomach and small intestine’s mucous lining.

It has been shown that those who ate salads with avocados absorbed five times the amount of carotenoids than those who did not include avocados.  Carotenoids help to reduce stroke and prostate cancer risks.   Often we get so focused on what foods we shouldn’t combine when eating for digestive purposes, that we lose sight of those that we ought to combine to help with better vitamin and mineral absorption.

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 24 half “eggs.”

“Egg whites”:

2 cups almond milk

2 tsp agar powder

1/4 tsp Kala Nanak (black salt)


Avocado guacamole yolk:


1 ripe avocado, pitted and peeled

1 Tbsp fresh lime juice

1/4 tsp sea salt

1/4 tsp onion powder

1/4 tsp garlic powder

2 tsp finely chopped cilantro

Smoked Paprika



Preparation:

“Egg whites”:


I used mold similar to (this one) for the eggs.

Place the almond milk, agar, and salt in a small saucepan.  Turn the heat on medium-high and whisk until it starts to bubble.  Reduce the heat to medium and continue to whisk for 4 minutes.  We need to make sure the agar dissolves.

Working quickly, pour the mixture into a measuring cup with a pour spout.  Then fill each egg cavity with agar.   Don’t stop during this process or the mixture will start to gel up.  If this happens, return the mixture to the saucepan and heat it back up until melted.

Place the molds in the fridge for at least 30 minutes.

Once they are firm, using a 1/4 tsp round measuring spoon, scoop out a small half circle on the fullest part of the “egg.”  Set aside to make the filling.



Avocado guacamole yolk:


Place the avocado, lime juice, salt, onion, and garlic powder in the blender and blend until smooth.

Place the mixture in a piping bag fitted with a star tip.   Place the tip in the hole you created and pipe the yolk mixture onto the egg in a swirling fashion.

Sprinkle with paprika and serve.






 





 





 





 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



