Raw Cauliflower "Rice" and Mushroom Casserole
https://nouveauraw.com/main-dishes/cauliflower-rice-and-mushroom-casserole/



	Cauliflower “Rice” and Mushroom Casserole

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Cauliflower is available year round in the markets; however, they are at their best during the winter months.  It is no wonder why I have been craving them… my body must be in tune with the seasons.

To start this dish off on the right foot, one must select the best possible cauliflower. When browsing the produce aisles, look for snowy/creamy white, compact, even heads that feel heavy in hand.  If they have a grainy surface and the florets have begun to separate, it indicates over-maturity.

Also, avoid a green coloration which may be due to an overexposure to sunlight. Heads with bruised surface indicate poor handling of the flower and those with dark color patches indicate a disease known as downy mildew.

Once at home, be sure to store cauliflower in the refrigerator.  It will stay fresh for about a week if stored properly.

The word, casserole, hasn’t been in my vocabulary since I started my raw adventure but as of today, that changed.   Typically a casserole is cooked slowly in an oven; this recipe was slowly “cooked” in my dehydrator.

If you don’t have a dehydrator, you can warm this casserole in your oven, set at the lowest temp.  I can’t guarantee that it will remain raw but none-the-less, it will still be healthier for you than popping foods out of cans.  Do you have a favorite casserole dish that you would like to healthify?   One of my favorites growing up was Tuna Casserole.  Hmmm,  gonna have to see if I can convert that.

This dish is a sure-fire way to enjoy winter “cooking.”  Enjoy!

 Ingredients:

Yields 4 cups

Cauliflower rice: 


12 oz by weight (3 cups) cauliflower

1/4 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked and dehydrated

1/4 cup hemp seeds

2 tsp Italian seasoning

1 tsp nutritional yeast

1/4 cup sliced green onions

1 cup mushroom gravy

1 cup baby peas


Mushroom:


1 large portabello mushroom, sliced

1 Tbsp coconut aminos


Top crust layer:


Raw Crunchy Cauliflower Crust Crumbles

Raw Brazil Nut “Cheese” Crumble


Preparation:

Cauliflower rice:


Remove the outer leaves from the cauliflower and cut away the large stem.  Wash and pat dry.  Rough chop and place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade,  and pulse until the cauliflower reaches a rice-like texture.  I find pulse works best because it causes the cauliflower to jump, giving it an overall, even ricing.  Pour into a medium-sized bowl.

Wipe the food processor bowl dry and process the sunflower seeds, hemp seeds, Italian seasoning, and nutritional yeast.  Process until the seeds reach a flour-like texture.  Add to the bowl with the cauliflower rice.

Add the green onions, gravy, and baby peas.  Mix until everything is well coated.

Place the mixture in 3 large ramekins, cover, and slide into the dehydrator.  Warm at 115 degrees (F)  for 2 hours or until warm.


Mushrooms:


Wipe the mushroom clean and slice into long strips.  Place in a glass dish and toss with the aminos (soy-sauce replacement).  Place in the dehydrator alongside the cauliflower, leaving them both to warm and soften.


Assembly:


Once warm and ready to eat,  coat the top of the casserole dish with the Raw Crunchy Cauliflower Crust Crumbles and Raw Brazil Nut.

Place the mushroom slices on top of the casserole and serve.

Store leftovers in the fridge for 2-3 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



