Weekly Raw Food Staples - make ahead recipe ideas
https://nouveauraw.com/members-only/weekly-raw-food-staples-make-ahead-recipe-ideas/



	Weekly Raw Food Staples – make ahead recipe ideas

													    
    


				Here are some recipe ideas that you can make ahead and eat throughout the week.  Keep in mind I am not suggesting that you make all of these, and there are so many other options to keep a strong rotation going.   I just wanted to pull this list together to get your creative juices flowing.  I hope as you read through you will see how one recipe can be used multiple times all week-long!  A raw food diet plan is really as simple as keeping on top of your kitchen stock so that there is always something to eat that is full of the best nutrition ever!  Click on each header to find more recipe ideas.

As you will see, one recipe can be used in many other applications. I hope to show you a completely different way to look at your food.




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

Seafood Salad Spread


This salad spread can be eaten several different ways throughout the week.

Will keep for at least 5 days.

Equipment needed: food processor or high-speed blender.

Prep work – soaking of nuts/seeds.

Use 1 – Use as a spread on lettuce leaves to make veggie wraps.

Use 2 – Use as a dip for cut up veggies.

Use 3 – Use as a spread on flax crackers to accompany a meal or as a snack.





Smoked Paprika and Sun-Dried Tomato Hummus


This hummus is very versatile.

Will keep for up to 4-7 days in the fridge.

Equipment needed: food processor.

Use 1 – Add a dollop to your favorite soup

Use 2 – Spread on crackers.

Use 3 – Use as a complimenting spread on your next sandwich.

Use 4 – Dip fresh cut veggies into it.







Creamy Kale Dip


Hummus is a versatile dip/spread to have on hand. Nut-free!

Will keep in the fridge for up to 3-5 days, but I have kept it up to a week.

Equipment needed: food processor or high-speed blender.

Use 1 – Use as a spread on lettuce leaves, wraps, raw breads to make veggie wrap/sandwiches.

Use 2 – Use as a dip for cut up veggies.

Use 3 – Use as a spread on flax crackers to accompany a meal or as a snack.





For more ideas, please click here:  SPREADS




		
		
			
				
			
			

		

 

Blueberry Mint Chia Jam


This jam is wonderful to have on hand for quick snacks, breakfast or even as part of your meals.  You can use any fruit that you desire.

Will keep for 1-2 weeks in the fridge

Equipment needed: food processor or high-speed blender. (you can also use a small unit such as a Bullet)

Use 1 – Add a dollop to your favorite oat/porridge breakfast meal.

Use 2 – Spread on flax crackers along with your favorite nut butter.

Use 3 – Add a Tbsp to your favorite smoothie.

Use 4 – Top your ice cream with it for dessert.





Raspberry Basil Date Jam


This jam is wonderful to have on hand for quick snacks, breakfast or even as part of your meals.  You can use any fruit that you desire.

Will keep for 1-2 weeks in the fridge

Equipment needed: food processor or high-speed blender. (you can also use a small unit such as a Bullet)

Use 1 – Add a dollop to your favorite oat/porridge breakfast meal.

Use 2 – Spread on raw bread along with your favorite nut butter.

Use 3 – Add a Tbsp to your favorite smoothie.

Use 4 – Top your ice cream with it for dessert.

Use 5 – Spread it on a banana fruit up for a sweet treat.





Date Paste:


Date paste is wonderful to have on hand for quick snacks, breakfast or desserts.

Will keep for 2+ weeks in the fridge or months in the freezer.

Equipment needed: food processor.

Use 1 – Add a dollop to your favorite oat/porridge breakfast meal.

Use 2 – Spread on raw bread.

Use 3 – Add a Tbsp to your favorite smoothie instead of other sweeteners.

Use 4 – Top your ice cream with it for dessert.

Use 5 – Use as a frosting on raw cakes or donuts.







Enjoy these dishes as a main dish, a side dish, and a snack.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

Spanish Quinoa and Refried “Bean” Burrito


This dish can be broken into many different meals throughout the week.

The Spanish Quinoa and “Beans” can individually be used as a side for one meal, or combined to make the burrito.

Will keep for up to a week in the fridge.

Equipment needed: food processor.

Use 1 – Enjoy a Mexican dinner by making the burrito as described in the link above.

Use 2 – Enjoy the Spanish Quinoa as a side of any meal.

Use 3 – Make a raw or cooked soup and add the Spanish Quinoa to it.

Use 4 – The Refried “Beans” are delicious all on their own.

Use 5 – Use the “Bean” in a taco salad.

Use 6 – Take the combination of Spanish Quinoa and “Beans”, stir together with a little salsa and have the perfect chip dip.





Spinach & Sunflower Cheese Manicotti


This dish can be broken into many different meals throughout the week.

Will keep for up to a week in the fridge.

Equipment needed: food processor.

Use 1 – Enjoy for dinner as described in the link above.

Use 2 – After making the Spinach & Sunflower Cheese set some aside to use as a dip or spread on crackers as a snack.

Use 3 – Toss the filling with zucchini noodles for another meal.

Use 4 – The Refried “Beans” are delicious all on their own.

Use 5 – Toss the filling in your next green salad.





Chunky Eggless Egg Salad


Will keep for 3-5 days in the fridge.

Equipment needed: blender

Use 1 – Enjoy for breakfast wrapped in a coconut wrap.

Use 2 – Enjoy as a side with your favorite green salad.

Use 3 – Create an open-faced sandwich.

Use 4 – Need a quick snack, place a dollop it on crackers.





For more recipe ideas, click here:  MAIN AND SIDE DISHES




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Touchdown Spicy Cheese Dip


This is a wonderful recipe to have on hand throughout the week!

Will keep up to 1 week in the fridge.

Equipment needed: blender

Use 1 – Use as a cheese sauce for veggie or zucchini noodles.

Use 2 – Use as a dip for cut-up veggies.

Use 3 – Use as a spread on crackers.

Use 4 – Thin into a dressing for a new exciting tasting salad.





Cashew Cream Cheese


This is a wonderful base for sweet or savory applications.

Will keep up to 1 week in the fridge.

Equipment needed: blender

Use 1 – Add savory spices to create a rich sauce for veggie or zucchini noodles.

Use 2 – Thin down with almond milk to create a salad dressing.

Use 3 – Replace the savory spices with sweet ones (cinnamon, clove, etc) and create a fruit dip for an easy snack.

Use 4 – Replace the savory spice with a sweetener and use as an icing for donuts, cakes, etc.





Cultured Almond Cheese with a Rind


This is a wonderful base for sweet or savory applications.

Will keep up to 1-2  weeks in the fridge.

Equipment needed: blender

Use 1 – Enjoy as is along with crackers…. great snack or alongside a salad.

Use 2 – Crumble the cheese over a green lettuce salad, pasta dish, or soup.

Use 3 – Spread the cheese on a sandwich in place of a mayo spread, pile on those veggies!





For more cheese ideas, click here: Cheese Making 101 &   SEEDS / NUT CHEESES




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Three-in-one Recipes


When you make raw salad dressings you can use them in 3 stages… at each stage increase the water turning it from a dip consistency to a sauce and lastly to a salad dressing.

Most will keep in the fridge for 5-7 days.

Equipment needed: blender

Use 1 – Use as a dip with veggies for a mid-afternoon snack.  ( use less liquid to make it a dip consistency )

Use 2 – Use as a sauce over zucchini noodles mixed with chopped veggies. (next day, add a few Tbsp of water to make it more of a sauce )

Use 3 – Use as a salad dressing. (the following day,  add a little more water making it into a dressing consistency )

Use 3 – Use as a sauce on veggie sandwiches.





Click here for more  DRESSINGS / DIPS / SAUCES




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Nut Milk


This is wonderful for granola/cereals, used in raw ice cream recipes, in sauces and just plain good to drink!

Will keep in the fridge for 4-7 days.

Equipment needed: high-speed blender, nut bag/strainer.

Prep work – nuts require soaking prior to making.

Use 1 – Use as a milk substitute for cereals/granola.

Use 2 – Use in making creamy sauces to serve over noodles.

Use 3 – Use in raw ice cream recipes.

Use 4 – Drink!





For more beverage recipes click here, Beverages  &  Non-Dairy Substitutes




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		


This is a real treat that will bring comfort to your day!

Will keep in the fridge for approx. 5-7 days and 1-3 months in the freezer.

Bread recipes can be molded in loaves, buns, breadsticks, and even croutons. Read more about Bread Making 101.

Equipment needed: food processor, dehydrator

Use 1 – Use for breakfast served with jam.

Use 2 – Use for veggie sandwiches for lunch.

Use 3 – Use for a side with your dinner meal.

Use 3 – Use for croutons on salads.  Place leftover bread in the dehydrator and dry till crunchy.  Score into small cubes!





For more recipes, click here, ARTISAN BREADS

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



