Prebiotic Fiber Powder
https://nouveauraw.com/members-only/prebiotic-fiber-powder/



	Prebiotic Fiber Powder

													    
    


				Prebiotics are just as important as probiotics, and you get an added bonus when you use them together. Prebiotics naturally reside in all kinds of fruits, vegetables, and some nuts & other foods.

What are Prebiotics?

Prebiotics are a type of fiber. They are un-digestible plant fibers that already live inside the large intestine. They are found naturally in chicory root, Jerusalem Artichoke, dandelion greens, garlic, leeks, onion, asparagus, and banana, apples, peas… all in their raw form… just to name a few.

Prebio Plus, is a brand that I use. It is a custom blend of organic prebiotic fibers, which encourage the growth of beneficial bacteria already living in the body. It can also aid in the growth and maintenance of probiotics. I am not endorsed, nor have I been asked to review their products… I did it all on my own accord. :)

What is the Role of Prebiotics?

According to Cutting Edge, “Without prebiotics, your good bacteria could never grow like it’s supposed to. Eating cultured probiotic foods adds colonies of bacteria to your gut. 

Adding prebiotics to your diet makes these colonies grow and grow, crowds out pathogens, and helps to reestablish the balance of good bacteria in strong numbers. 

Essentially, prebiotics serves as fertilizer for the bacteria in your colon. This can help strengthen your immune system to resist infections and viruses. It also helps to remove toxins and a host of other things that your bacteria is designed to do. But if you don’t have the healthy strains of good bacteria from cultured foods, as well as the prebiotics to make them grow, your gut flora can’t change into what it needs to be.”

How to Maintain a Bacterial Balance

A wonderful way of establishing and replenishing bacterial flora in the gut is the use of fermented foods like homemade sauerkraut and yogurt on a daily basis. But only you know what works best for your body. We are all so uniquely created.

How to Use:


Add to any food or beverage.

Add to Kefir or cultured veggies while they’re culturing. You can even add it after they’re done for an extra boost.

Give your salad dressing or any other condiment a probiotic boost.

Begin with 1/2 to 1 scoop and gradually increase quantity up to 3 scoops per day.

I have been adding a scoop to all my raw cheesecakes and cultured cheeses too.


Please consult your health care provider if you have any questions as to whether or not this is right for you. 

Especially, if you are facing any health challenges. 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



