Bee Pollen - A Superfood!
https://nouveauraw.com/members-only/bee-pollen-a-superfood/



	Bee Pollen – A Superfood!

													    
    


				It should go without saying… but I will go ahead and say it… this is not a vegan product. It’s bee-gan.  Read below and decide if this is an ingredient that you want to incorporate into your diet.

Dried Bee Pollen Granules

It is often referred to as “nature’s perfect food.” Bee pollen contains 96 known nutrients, with a high degree of bioavailability.  No other single food offers the array of vitamins, minerals, protein, amino acids, antibiotics, enzymes, trace elements, fats, and hormones found in bee pollen. It can alleviate the nutritional deficiencies common in today’s world, and help the body rebuild and rejuvenate itself.

Health Benefits


Bee pollen contains up to 40% high-quality protein, more than any animal product, and all the essential amino acids, making it an excellent food for nourishing the brain and building strength. It is a rich dietary source of zinc, calcium, magnesium, iron, and other minerals, and provides the highest concentration of vitamins of any food found in nature.

It is also packed with live enzymes, as well as phytonutrients, including co-enzymes, bioflavonoids, phytosterols, and carotenoids.  To preserve enzymatic and nutrient value, do not expose bee pollen to heat.

Bee pollen is perhaps the highest dietary source of rutin, which helps increase the strength and integrity of blood cell walls, strengthens the heart, and helps control high blood pressure.

Also, bee pollen is a natural antibiotic in which bacteria cannot exist, providing increased resistance to infection.  Antibiotic factors present in the pollen have been proven effective against E. coli, proteus, and salmonella organisms.

Many athletes take bee pollen to help increase their energy levels and endurance, and it has been widely used by Olympic athletes to improve their stamina while training. It has been of particular benefit to underweight athletes, enabling them to increase body weight and lean muscle mass. Because pollen is particularly rich in B-complex vitamins, minerals like potassium, and amino acids, it supports the glandular system, which is responsible for increased stamina and surges of vitality.

Pollen is also an excellent free radical scavenger that can protect against the adverse effects of pollution and exposure to radiation.

The wide range of nutrients found in bee pollen work together, providing a synergistic impact that seems to improve their overall absorption by the body and enable better utilization of other nutrients present in the diet. Pollen corrects imbalances caused by deficient nutrition and provides particular benefits when the body is challenged during times of increased stress.




An optimal dose is about one teaspoon per day – an amount that takes one bee working 8 hours a day for a month to gather. Beginning users should start with a granule, to guard against a rare but possibly extreme allergic reaction, and build up the dosage gradually over several weeks.

Disclaimer – This website is not intended to provide medical advice.  All content, including text, graphics, images, and information available on this site is for general informational, entertainment and educational purposes only.  The content is not intended to be a substitute for professional diagnosis or treatment. The author of this site is not responsible for any adverse effects that may occur from the application of the information on this site. You are encouraged to make your own healthcare decisions based on your research and in partnership with a qualified healthcare professional.

Information provided by Living Superfoods

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



