Mellow Yellow Coconut Cauliflower Porridge
https://nouveauraw.com/members-only/mellow-yellow-coconut-cauliflower-porridge/



	Mellow Yellow Coconut Cauliflower Porridge

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, AIP ~

The inspiration for creating recipes can literally stem from anything. In this case, it was born out of necessity. I was longing for a sweet porridge-like dish… but it had to be nut-free, seed-free, gluten-free, dairy-free, soy-free, nightshade-free, and grain-free. Did I get them all?

Sometimes I just want to throw my hands high in the air and surrender.  But instead, I sat down, pondering, searching, racking my brain in what was possibly left food-wise that would create a creamy porridge?

Does Color Matter?

Colored cauliflower holds the same firmness, crumbly florets, and texture as its white counterpart, with subtle differences in taste. Orange cauliflower is mild, slightly sweet, and creamy. The color can range from subtle to vibrant, and even be different in the middle.

These beautiful veggies are a storehouse for beta carotene. But keep in mind, carotenoids are fat-soluble. So to reap their health benefits, your dish/meal should also contain some healthy fats. Another reason why I added in the full-fat coconut milk. A healthy bonus to the orange cauliflower is that it contains about 25% more vitamin A than white cauliflower. Again, this is another fat-soluble vitamin, so don’t leave out the coconut milk. :)

Make Your Selection

As you stroll through the produce section, you are going to look for cauliflower that is uniform in color with densely packed florets. Avoid heads that have brown spots and blemishes. It should feel heavy for its size, and the leaves should look fresh and vibrant. Wilted leaves indicate an older head of cauliflower, which can increase the bitterness.

For more tips on how to reduce the bitterness of cauliflower be sure to read the post that I wrote on my Sweet Cauliflower Porridge.  Below, I have listed some quick instructions on making this dish with raw or steamed cauliflower. I made it with steamed because it is much gentler on my digestion. If you suffer from digestive issues, I highly recommend steaming the cauliflower. Don’t get caught in the fact that everything has to be raw to be healthy.  We live in a world of labels (raw, vegan, paleo, Wrangler, Levi’s)… well, strip that particular label off because we all have different jeans “genes.” Eat according to your body’s needs, not the latest fad. Enjoy, and please post a comment below. I love hearing from you. amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 good serving


1 1/2 cups steamed orange/yellow cauliflower

1/2 cup coconut milk, raw or canned

NuNatural Stevia to taste

Pinch Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp shredded, dried coconut

Optional: fresh golden berries or golden raspberries


Preparation:

Raw Cauliflower Riced Version:


Break the cauliflower into small florets,  place them in the food processor bowl fitted with the “S” blade. Pulse until it reaches a rice-size texture. Pour into a bowl.

Cover with cold water and a few ice cubes and let sit for 30 minutes to a few hours.

This process sweetens the cauliflower, making it easier to enjoy in the raw state.

Once done soaking, pour into a mesh strainer to drain the water out.

Then place the cauliflower in a clean linen towel and hand-squeeze the excess water from it. Place in a bowl.




The texture of this method will more like a rice pudding with a chewy, toothsome bite. I steamed mine.


Steamed Porridge Version:


How to Steam Cauliflower In a Steamer Basket

Bring an inch of water to a boil in the bottom of a pot into which your steamer basket or insert fits.

Cut or break the cauliflower into similar-sized pieces so they steam evenly.  Place the florets in the steamer basket, set over the boiling water, cover, and steam until fork tender (3-8 minutes).

Be careful not to overcook it because that will increase the bitterness.

To test for doneness, prick the cauliflower with a fork after four or five minutes. The florets should be fork-tender but still somewhat firm.





Assembly:


After preparing the cauliflower, add the coconut milk and stevia, stirring until combined.

You can use any sweetener that you want.

You can blend this together in the blender for a creamy texture; it’s completely up to you.




Garnish with shredded coconut, cinnamon, and sprinkle salt on top. (I added cinnamon on top after the photo, just spaced it out for the photoshoot)

Salt is optional, but it helps to elevate the sweetness and give it that slight balance of flavors.

Garnish with fresh goldenberries or golden raspberries on top and enjoy.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



