Mexican Flax Crackers
https://nouveauraw.com/mexican-cuisine/mexican-flax-crackers/



	Mexican Flax Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Flax crackers are one of the most versatile crackers in the raw world.  You can get by with the least amount of ingredients, giving them quick flavor with just a few spices and herbs.

For a long time, I really didn’t appreciate the importance of this simple raw food staple.  Sometimes I tend to overlook simplicity by viewing it as tasteless or just boring.  Through my journey of raw, it has gone from simple to gourmet then back to simple.  Now I have found a balance in bringing those two worlds together.

The one thing that I have come to learn with flax crackers is that you need to up your water intake when eating them.  Not only because they are dehydrated and all the moisture has been removed, but also because they swell in the body making them useful for colon cleansing.  Flax seeds contain fibers and essential fatty acids.

I hope you enjoy this simple recipe, Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1 1/2 cups flax seeds

3 cups water, for soaking

1 cup fresh salsa

2 jalapenos, chopped and seeded

1/2 cup ground flaxseed

salt and pepper


Preparation:


Soak the flax seeds in 3 cups of water for 2 to 24 hours.

The flax seeds should soak up the water, leaving a thick gelatinous mixture.

Do not attempt to wash them off or drain the liquid.




Once the flax seeds are done soaking, add the salsa, jalapeños, ground flax, and salt.  Mix together and let sit for about 15-30 minutes.  This will give the ground flax seeds time to thicken up the batter.

Pour the batter onto the dehydrator sheets, spread and dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees and continue to dry for 10 hours or until dry and crispy.

Partway through the dry time, transfer the crackers to the mesh sheet, peeling off the non-stick sheet.  This will help speed up the dry time.

To prevent the edges of the crackers from curling you can lay another mesh sheet on top of the crackers.




If you don’t own a dehydrator, spread the dough onto an oiled cookie sheet, cut into desired shapes and dry in the oven on the lowest setting, for 4 to 6 hours or until you achieve the desired texture (from slightly soft to very crispy).

Crackers will keep in a sealed container in the fridge for up many weeks.




Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



Substitutions:

One of the greatest joys when creating raw food recipes is experimenting with different ingredients… a practice that I highly encourage.  Daily I get questions regarding substitutions.  Of course, we all might have different dietary needs and tastes which could necessitate altering a recipe.    I love to share with you what I create for myself, my husband, friends, and family.  I spend a lot of time selecting the right ingredients with a particular goal in mind, looking to build a certain flavor and texture.


So as you experiment with substitutions, remember they are what they sound like, they are substitutes for the preferred item.  Generally, they are not going to behave, taste, or have the same texture as the suggested ingredient.   Some may work, and others may not and I can’t promise what the results will be unless I’ve tried them myself.   So have fun, don’t be afraid,  and remember, substituting is how I discovered many of my unique dishes.



These crackers pair beautifully with Queso Blanco Mexican Cheese Dip






Fun gift idea:  Jar up single servings of crackers and cheese.
It doesn’t even need to be for a gift… single servings are fun to
grab and go.  Or are perfect for game night.







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



