Gordita Supreme Taco
https://nouveauraw.com/mexican-cuisine/gordita-supreme-taco/



	Gordita Supreme Taco

													    
    


				– raw, vegan, gluten-free –

Warm, pillowy flatbread held into place with a spread of “refried beans,” wrapped around a crunchy raw taco… which is fully loaded with raw taco meat (nut-based or lentil-based), fresh salsa, diced onions, shredded lettuce, and Mexican white cheese (high-raw, vegan) and then taken over the edge with a drizzle of Sriracha sauce. That folks is how my hubby likes his gordita!

Gordita means “little fat one” in Spanish. And as long as my husband is longingly looking at his plate as he is about to sink his teeth in the taco… saying, “Ahh, there’s my little gordita!” and NOT when he is hugging me… then all is good in the world. hehe

The first time I heard of a gordita was from a Taco Bell commercial.  They came onto the scene after I had given up all fast food… so I never ate one. BUT, that doesn’t mean that the mere idea of what they are made up of didn’t entice me. Just thinking of Mexican food makes me drool like a dog waiting for his master to throw the ball for the gazillionth time.

The idea of recreating such a dish has been bouncing around in my head for years. Finally, I got around to creating one that is raw, healthified, and oooooh sooooo dang (pardon my language) good!

Bob had one for dinner, three nights in a row. That right, there is a true testament of happy taste buds. And when my husband’s taste buds are happy, that means he is happy, and that makes me very, very happy! I should note that when making these for your family or friends, one is usually a sufficient amount. They are quite filling. It may seem overwhelming to make all the components that are required for this dish, but it is well worth it. Each one will together create this amazing dish, and any leftovers can be used creatively throughout the week. Please share your comments and thoughts below with me. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


Crispy Taco Shell

Soft “Buttery” Flatbread

Taco meat (nut-based or lentil-based)

“Refried Beans”

Guacamole

Salsa

Lettuce, shredded

Mexican White Cheese, shredded

Sour cream, raw vegan

Side dish: Spanish Quinoa


Preparation:


Make the crispy taco shells and flatbreads ahead of time.

When drying the flatbreads, make sure that you take them out before fully dry, they won’t be doughy, just flexible.




Lay the flatbread on the plate in front of you.

Spread a layer of “refried beans” over the whole surface, right up to the edges.




Load the taco shell with all the fixings that you made for yourself.

Once loaded, set the shell in the center of the flatbread and gather the two sides up against the shell.

To plate, cut a lime in half, placing both pieces cut side down. Place the gordita in between them, thus creating a holder!

Serve with more salad, guacamole, and a side of Spanish Quinoa. Enjoy right away!

Learn how to select good avocados! Click (here).



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



