Taco "Meat"
https://nouveauraw.com/mexican-cuisine/taco-walnut-meat/



	Taco “Walnut-Meat”

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Go ahead, wrinkle your nose, turn your head in disbelief, slam your laptop cover closed in disgust (carefully), sigh and say, “Eeeewww!”…. ok good, now that you got that out of your system… we can get down to business :)

Trust me, I used to be one to pass over this concept myself. But, I am here to share and encourage you to give this recipe a try.  Nut “meats” are not new.  But the concept can be a hard sell.  If you have been around my site and have tested a few of my recipes, you know that I wouldn’t steer wrong.   Well, not on purpose.

INGREDIENTS

So how in the world can this take like meat? Walnuts and portabello mushrooms are what really kick this recipe into high gear, giving it that “meat” taste.   I wouldn’t recommend substituting either one.  If you do, please let me know how it turned out.  We are all here to help one another.

The orchestra of spices also plays an important part in this recipe. Each one holding its own note, yet coming together to create a fine melody which will leave your taste buds singing.

TECHNIQUE

Today, we are going to use the food processor. If your machine has a pulse button, use it! We don’t want to create a mushy mash. We want to process it just long enough so it creates a small crumble, much like ground hamburger.  To give this dish an even more realistic flavor, warm it up. Place the mixture in a wide mouth dish, that way more surface area is exposed to the warm air.  Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 30+ minutes, or until warm.  Then serve immediately.  This tastes amazing on my Spicy Taco Bites too. Enjoy and please leave a comment below. blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


1 cup (95 g) raw walnuts, soaked 4-8 hours

1 1/4 cup (104 g) portabello mushrooms

1 tsp (5 g) tamari

2 tsp (7 g) ground cumin

2 tsp (7 g) coriander powder

1 tsp (4 g) garlic powder

1 tsp (4 g) onion powder

1/4 tsp (1 g) chili powder

1/8 (<1 g) tsp cayenne powder


Preparation:


Soak, drain and rinse the walnuts.  Place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.

Add the mushrooms, tamari, cumin, coriander, garlic powder, onion powder, chili powder and cayenne powder.  Pulse until crumbly. You don’t want to over-blend, or it will be a paste.

Serve immediately or store in the fridge up to 3-5 days.


 

 

 


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



