Chipotle Lime Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/mexican-cuisine/chipoli-lime-sauce/



	Chipotle Lime Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Chipotle chili powder has an earthy flavor with a deep smokiness that’s created during the drying and smoking process. The powder first starts off as ripe, red jalapeño peppers that have been slowly wood-smoked.

If you’re not sure if like this spice, remember that a little bit goes a long way so be sure to use a light hand. Build the flavor up if need be until it reaches the expectations of your taste buds.

A sauce with many hats.

This sauce can be used as a dip, thinned out for a dressing, or you can even use the sauce to coat kale, making a fantastic kale chip with a little heat. I love recipes that are versatile like this.

In fact, I do this with many of my recipes. The labor that it takes to make one recipe can save me a lot of time throughout the week when I divide it up, giving it new life every other day.

When I sat down to enjoy this sauce, I tried hard to remember what sauces/dips I enjoyed as a child… or shoot, even my early adult years.  I came up blank.  All I can recall eating is Frito Bean Dip and Ranch Dip in a jar. Other than that… my palate didn’t understand other complex flavors.

I am truly amazed as to how a simple decision to eat a high raw diet has totally changed my eating experience. It opened up a new world of ethnic flavors and has expanded my menu.  Well, it’s time to let you go so you get busy in the kitchen. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups



3/4 cup water

2 tsp lime zest

1 – 2 Tbsp fresh lime juice

1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/2 tsp ground cumin

1/2 tsp chili powder

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp ground black pepper

1/2 tsp chipotle powder

few drops of siracha


Preparation:


It is important to soak the cashews for at least 2 hours.

Place them in a bowl with 3 cups of warm water and let them soak for at least 2 hours.

This will soften them which will help you achieve a creamy sauce.

The soaking process also reduces the phytic acid, making it easier to digest.

 After soaking, drain and rinse.




In a high-powered blender combine the; water, zest, lime juice, cashews, cumin, chili powder, salt, pepper and chipotle powder.  Blend until the sauce is creamy and grit free.

It is always best to add the liquid ingredients to the blender first.  This will help the blades move more freely.

Depending on what I have in my spice drawer, I will either use chipotle powder or smoked paprika. Love them both.




Keep the sauce stored in the fridge in an airtight container for 5-7 days.







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



