Smoked Chipotle Taco Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/mexican-cuisine/smoked-chipotle-taco-sauce/



	Smoked Chipotle Taco Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This sauce pairs beautifully with my Raw Lentil Tacos and is a great alternative to using Raw Sour Cream… not that there is anything wrong with Raw Sour Cream… :)  This recipe just kicks any dish up a notch.

My favorite ingredient in this sauce is the Smoked Chipotle.  I just love its smoky, sweet, and spicy flavor. Simply made from dried, smoked jalapeño chilies which are ground into a fine powder.  For an interesting tidbit of info…  it takes 10 pounds of fresh peppers to make one pound of dried Chipotles.

Just in case this shows up in your next game of Trivia, you will be thanking me. :)   If you don’t have this amazing spice in your pantry, you can use smoked paprika instead, but the taste will not be quite the same.   Enjoy!

Just in case this shows up in your next game of Trivia, you will be thanking me. :)   If you don’t have this amazing spice in your pantry, you can use smoked paprika instead, but the taste will not be quite the same.   Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


1/2 cup water

1/2 cup red pepper

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1/2 tsp ground cumin

1/2 tsp sea salt

1/2 tsp ground black pepper

1/2 tsp smoked chipotle powder

1/4 tsp chili powder


Preparation:


It is important to soak the cashews for at least 2 hours.  This will soften them which will help you achieve a creamy sauce.  After soaking, drain and rinse.

Use a high-powered blender and add the ingredients in the following order; water, red pepper, vinegar, cashews, nutritional yeast, cumin, salt, black pepper, chipotle, and chili powder.   Blend until the sauce is creamy and grit free.

Keep the sauce stored in the fridge in an airtight container.  Should last 5-7 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



