Reduced Fat Avocado Guacamole (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/mexican-cuisine/reduced-fat-avocado-guacamole/



	Reduced Fat Avocado Guacamole

													    
    


				

~ alkaline, raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This recipe and I have a secret… Zucchini is the secret ingredient in this recipe that adds a fresh and light flair to this generally heavy dip.

I love zucchini and how versatile it is.  I decided to add it to my guacamole for several reasons.  First of all, I wanted to reduce the fat grams.  Don’t get me wrong, I love avocados and all that they have to offer in the nutrition department… mainly for their healthy fat content.

Trust me when I say that I spent most of my life running down the street, arms flaying, screaming as “fats” chased me down.  I did everything I could to avoid them.

Why? They scared me and because every magazine in the grocery store check out line said to.  Those “guys” were my health coaches back then.  Thank goodness that I have learned a lot through my journey and I no longer avoid, nor am I scared of healthy fats.

But with that being said, there is nothing wrong with cutting fat here and there to create balance in your daily diet. I do hope that you all read these short little tidbits (write-ups) that I share with you because I tend to share valuable information pertaining to the recipe that you are about to embark upon.

Speaking of that, I have a few important things to point out that help you make a successful Reduced Fat Avocado Guacamole.

First of all, when selecting zucchini for this recipe, aim for the smaller ones.  We all tend to think that bigger is better (except for our pant’s size) but in this case, the smaller ones are best. That is because it will have smaller and fewer seeds within, which won’t release as much water.  Over time, water will still seep out due to the salt in the recipe. That is why I recommend eating this guacamole the day it is made.

Next, it is best to remove the seeds from the tomatoes.  Cut them in half and scoop out the center.  This will remove the extra liquid. Roma tomatoes are good for recipes such as this but use what you have.  With this quick tips, you will create a wonderful guacamole. Bob loved this and couldn’t get over the fact that it had zucchini it.  I even overheard him on the phone telling a few of his buddies. haha Never knew that zucchini would make it into “guy chat” haha  Enjoy, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 3/4 cup


2 cups (315 g) diced zucchini

1 1/2 avocados (242 g)

1-2 Tbsp raw coconut vinegar

1 small garlic clove

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp ground cumin

1/2 cup (140 g) diced tomatoes

1/3 cup (65 g) diced red onion

1/4-1/2 cup fresh chopped cilantro or dill


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the zucchini, avocado, vinegar, garlic, salt and cumin.  Process until creamy.

I choose to peel the zucchini but you can keep it on if you wish.

Start with 1 Tbsp of vinegar, taste test and add more if you wish.




Pour into a bowl and add the tomatoes, onion and fresh herbs.  Mix gently.

Best to eat the same day as it is made.





The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Wonder how to select the perfect avocado?  Click (here) to learn my trick.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

In place of the raw coconut vinegar, you can use raw apple cider vinegar.

If you want to keep the zucchini skins on but they aren’t organic… PEEL them!





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



