Apple Noodles (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/noodle-making-alternatives/apple-noodles/



	Apple Noodles

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, alkaline ~

Gala, Pink Ladies, Granny Smith, Honeycrisp, Macintosh, Empire, Ambrosia… when it comes to apples the varieties are almost endless.

Oodles of Apple Noodles

Here is the trick to spiralizing apples, leave the core intact, if lined up correctly it will come through the center of the spiralizer.  Once you have created the noodles, toss them with a little lemon juice to prevent browning.

Apple noodles are a little pazazz to life.  What child wouldn’t love to sit down with a bowl of apple noodles tossed with a little ground cinnamon and maybe a few raw coconut crystals? You can also add apples to sweet and savory dishes.  Apples go well with (just to name a few): apricots, cabbage, caramel, cheese, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, ginger, honey, lemon, pecans, onions, carrots, beets, celery,  sweet potato, raisins, and vanilla.

Personally, I have never met an apple that I didn’t like, sweet, sour… wait I take that back… I don’t care for “mealy” apples. You know the kind that feels dry and grainy in your mouth. Spiralizers don’t like them either.  In order to get nice crisp noodles, you must start with fresh, crisp apples.

Play with your Food!

I’m going to have to insist on this. You must learn to play, have fun, and enjoy the foods you eat. Taking some of your favorite foods and creating noodles out them… well, it just adds a lot more joy and giggles into your life. And goodness… get your young one’s involved with the process too. Naturally, keep an eye on their little fingers so they don’t cut themselves, but even just having them sit there and watch the magic happen will brighten not only their day but yours as well! Trust me. :)

Ingredients:


Organic apples


Preparation:


Be sure to pick the freshest, in season, apples that you can find.   This will ensure that you get the best tasting noodles possible.

Look for firm and crisp apples.   If the flesh is mushy, it won’t work on the spiralizer.

If non-organic, peel the skins off before spiralizing.

Place the unit on the countertop and press down on the spiralizer to engage the suction cups and secure.

Insert the blade cartridge you’d like to use, make sure that it clicks into place.

Place the center of the apple onto the cylinder part of the blade and press the teeth of the handle into the other side of it.

Take hold of the handle on the bottom (the horizontal one) with one hand and then spin the handle with the teeth to spiralize. Press steadily with forward pressure, using the handle that you’re gripping, for best results.

Before dressing up the noodles, take scissors when you’re done spiralizing and cut the noodles into manageable sized pieces.  Just grab a bunch of noodles and roughly snip.  Or enjoy that never-ending noodle!


To clean the spiralizer:


Purchase an inexpensive handled brush for cleaning the blade parts and hard to reach parts on the unit.  This will save your fingers and prevent nicks from happening on the blades, keeping them nice and sharp.

Be sure to quickly rinse the unit after creating noodles.  The juices from certain root veggies can stain the unit.

Dry the blades well before putting them away.


Tools used to create noodles:

GEFU Spiralfix Spiral Slicer


Can be used in the left or right hand.

4 different widths of cut for creative recipes: Spiral cut across the entire width of the material, 3 mm, 6 mm, or 12 mm wide adjustable via adjusting wheel

Folding lid for easy filling

Detachable non-slip holding container for safe standing

Material: stainless steel, ABS plastic, SAN

Splash-guard lid with drive unit detachable for easy cleaning. Dishwasher-safe


Spiralizer 7-Blade Vegetable Slicer


This slicer comes with 7 different blades which give you 7 completely different textures and shapes.

Comes with 420 high carbon cutlery grade stainless steel blades and stronger making it possible to Spiralize harder root vegetables like sweet potatoes and turnips that previously broke Spiralizer handles


Potato Peeler




Wash and peel the outer skin off of the veggie.

Hold the veggie at one end and in a long stroke motion, run the peeler from top to bottom.

Rotate the veggie in a circular motion and continue peeling until you reach the seeded core (if there is one).  Stop once you reach this.  Don’t throw it away, use it in a smoothie or salad.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



