Broccoli Noodles (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/noodle-making-alternatives/broccoli-noodles/



	Broccoli Noodles

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, alkaline ~

Many years ago, I learned that the stalks of broccoli are packed full of nutrients, but I never thought about spiraling them into noodles.  I have juiced them and sliced them into salads, but to be honest, I have often avoided the stalks when making my selection at the grocery store.  I have even gone as far as asking the produce person to cut off the stems because I didn’t want to pay for something that I wasn’t going to eat. (smacks forehead).

Nutrient and flavor-packed stems…

The stems actually have a wonderful mild sweet flavor and are much higher in fiber than the florets, but on the other hand, the florets contain more beta-carotene than the stalks. The leaves should be enjoyed as well because they are a rich source of beta-carotene.  Each part of the broccoli brings something to the table and should be enjoyed.

When incorporating broccoli stalks into your diet be sure to wash them well and then take a potato peeler and remove the outer skin.  This can taste bitter and be gas forming for delicate tummies.   Don’t look to them for a strong broccoli taste,  leave that job to the florets but none-the-less, they still offer up taste and nutrients.

If you have made veggie noodles before with the spiralizer, you know that a long cylinder-shaped tube comes out the center of the machine as the strips the outer flesh into noodles… this centerpiece is delicious!  It is often the sweetest part of the veggie being noodle-fied.  This is your treat and should be enjoyed by the noodle-maker. hehe

By the way, hen selecting broccoli florets looks for the ones with a dark green, bluish-green, or purplish-green color since they contain a higher concentration of beta-carotene than pale green or yellowish-green florets.

Ingredients:


Thick broccoli stocks


Preparation:


Be sure to pick fresh and firm broccoli stocks.   This will ensure that you get the best tasting noodles possible.  If the stocks are rubbery, it won’t work on the spiralizer.  Save those for juicing.

Wash and peel the stalks.  This will remove any bitterness.

Place the unit on the countertop and press down on the spiralizer to engage the suction cups and secure.

Insert the blade cartridge you’d like to use, make sure that it clicks into place.

Cut flat ends on each end of the stock.

Place the center of the stock onto the cylinder part of the blade and press the teeth of the handle into the other side of it.

Take hold of the handle on the bottom (the horizontal one) with one hand and then spin the handle with the teeth to spiralize. Press steadily with forward pressure, using the handle that you’re gripping, for best results.

Before dressing up the noodles, take scissors when you’re done spiralizing and cut the noodles into manageable size pieces.  Just grab a bunch of noodles and roughly snip.  Or enjoy that never-ending noodle!

You can make noodles in advance, they should keep for 5-7 days in the fridge, without sauce.


To clean the spiralizer:


Purchase an inexpensive handled brush for cleaning the blade parts and hard to reach parts on the unit.  This will save your fingers and prevent nicks from happening on the blades, keeping them nice and sharp.

Be sure to quickly rinse the unit after creating noodles.  The juices from certain root veggies can stain the unit.

Dry the blades well before putting them away.


Tools used to create noodles:

GEFU Sp

GEFU Spiralfix Spiral Slicer


Can be used in the left or right hand.

4 different widths of cut for creative recipes: Spiral cut across the entire width of the material, 3 mm, 6 mm, or 12 mm wide adjustable via adjusting wheel

Folding lid for easy filling

Detachable non-slip holding container for safe standing

Material: stainless steel, ABS plastic, SAN

Splash-guard lid with drive unit detachable for easy cleaning. Dishwasher-safe


Spiralizer 7-Blade Vegetable Slicer


This slicer comes with 7 different blades which give you 7 completely different textures and shapes.

Comes with 420 high carbon cutlery grade stainless steel blades and stronger making it possible to Spiralize harder root vegetables like sweet potatoes and turnips that previously broke Spiralizer handles


Potato Peeler




Wash and peel the outer skin off of the veggie.

Hold the veggie at one end and in a long stroke motion, run the peeler from top to bottom.

Rotate the veggie in a circular motion and continue peeling until you reach the seeded core (if there is one).  Stop once you reach this.  Don’t throw it away, use it in a smoothie or salad.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



