Raw White Almond Pulp
https://nouveauraw.com/nut-veggie-juice-pulps/raw-white-almond-pulpwhite-almond-pulp/



	Almond Pulp (white, without almond skins)

													    
    


				Almond pulp is the by-product from making nut milk.  It is a wonderful ingredient for making raw crackers, cookies, breads, tart crusts, and so on.

Never throw this stuff away!

If you make small amounts of the almond milk, place the pulp in a freezer-safe ziplock bag and pop it in the freezer until you have saved enough to make a recipe.

So why would a person want to take an extra step and remove the skins from the almonds? For several reasons.  Many people find the skins of almonds hard to digest. Therefore removing them can be easier on the tummy.

Also, by removing the skins, you are left with a gorgeous white almond pulp which is wonderful for recipes were you want to have a white(ish) color to the recipe. For example, quickly take a peek at this recipe…. Raw Almond Cardamon Bundt Cake… see that beautiful white inner cake?  Made from white almond pulp.

When designing a recipe where you want a white outcome, keep in mind the colors of all the ingredients.

This type of pulp is perfect for creating a white, fine flour.  Just take the pulp and dehydrate it, then grind it to a fine flour. I use this in quite a few of my recipes.

I made this recipe with 4 1/2 cups of almonds… through the process it yielded me…  4 1/2 cups of pulp and 10 cups of almond milk.  For the nut milk ratio I used 2:1 (twice as much water as almonds).  You can tweak this to your liking by adding less or more water.

Ingredients:

Yields 4 1/4  cups pulp


4 1/2 cups raw almonds, soaked &  dehydrated / skinned

8 cups water


Preparation:


Before you make the almond milk, keep this in mind…   If you like to sweeten your almond milk, be sure to remove the pulp first so you don’t flavor the pulp.

After soaking the almonds, remove the skins.  Read how (here) .

Once the skins are removed, drain and discard the water.  Give the almonds a rinse.

Place the almonds and water in the blender.  Blend for about 60 seconds until the nuts are completely broken down.  Depending on the blender size, you may need to do this in two stages.

Pour the almond milk through a nut bag.  Twist and squeeze the milk from the bag.

Store the nut milk in the fridge for up to 5 days or freeze for about 3 months.

Store the almond pulp in the fridge for 2-3 days or freeze for about 3 months or longer.

Flour option: to create a white, fine flour for recipes, spread the pulp on a dehydrator sheet and dry at 115 degrees (F) for 4-8 hours.  Basically until it is completely dry.  Then grind it down to a nice fine flour.





Do I need to soak almonds before making milk?  Yes, read why (here).

Click (here) to learn how to remove the skins off of the almonds.

If you love making my own almond milk but don’t have enough hand strength.  Click (here) for a new technique I discovered.

You would love to make almond milk, but can’t get your family to drink it because it separates.  Have no fear.  I have a recipe to make “Homogenized” Almond Milk, it stays creamy and smooth ever after days of sitting in the fridge.  Be sure to do this after you have separated the pulp from the milk so it doesn’t taint your pulp.

Even after reading all of this, you want more info on almond pulp.  Click (here) and I will fill your noggin with all sorts of information.

You don’t have time to make your own milk and dehydrate the pulp.  You just need a quick raw almond flour right now.  I got your back, click (here).

Ok, Amie Sue… I have tons of almond pulp but I don’t want to dehydrate it to make flour, what else can I do with it?  Glad you asked!  On the left side of your screen towards the top, you will see a (search) box.  Type in “almond pulp” and oodles of recipes will pop up for you.  Same goes with searching for recipes that use “almond flour”.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



