Raw Vegan Sunday Morning Chocolate Doughnuts
https://nouveauraw.com/pastries/sunday-morning-chocolate-doughnuts/



	Sunday Morning Chocolate Doughnuts

													    
    


				Sunday Morning Chocolate Doughnuts


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I developed these donuts for my husband who loves chocolate cake doughnuts.  He thought that his love for them was going to be a distant memory.  They are a tender, moist, and have a fudge cake-like texture, and let’s not forget the chocolate ganache frosting that blankets the surface. It’s safe to say that my husband was in heaven with the first bite.

Chase down each bite with some fresh Almond Milk, and you have an excellent combination to start your day with.

Family Traditions

Growing up it was tradition to find a box of doughnuts on my grandparent’s kitchen table. I would like to say “every Sunday, ” but truthfully, this was almost a daily occurrence. Everyone would gather around the table as soon as the coffee pot beeped.  With coffee cups cradled in the palms of their hands, they all peered into the pink box that adorned the center of the table.

We all had our favorites, and it was rare if anyone deviated from them. Bismarks were one of the family favorites, but, me… I would dive into the maple filled ones.  But, as I am sure you have guessed, those days have long passed.  I can’t even recall the last doughnut that I had. I won’t fib, I sort of miss them from time to time… but when I really examine the craving, I find it difficult to distinguish whether it is the craving for a doughnut or for those family gatherings.

This recipe goes together really quick and doesn’t require too much time in the dehydrator. In fact, you will want to keep an eye on them, so they don’t over-dry. They are meant to be moist on the inside. I do hope that you enjoy this recipe. Please be sure to comment below and have a blessed time in the kitchen. amie sue

Ingredients:



yields 10 (1/4 each) donuts


1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup raw pecans, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp instant coffee grounds (optional)

1/2 cup coconut flakes, finely ground

1/2 cup rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1/2 cup raw cacao powder

8 Medjool dates, pitted

1/4 cup maple syrup

1 tsp vanilla extract


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, grind the almonds and pecans, along with the salt and instant coffee to a fine/small crumble.  Pour into a small bowl.

The instant coffee grounds are optional, but they add a nice deep rich flavor to the doughnut.




Back in the food processor, grind the coconut and oats to a fine powder.  Add the nuts back in, along with the cacao powder. Pulse until well mixed.

Add the soft dates, sweetener and vanilla, processing until the batter sticks together when pinched.

If the dates are really hard and dry, I suggest re-hydrating them but placing them in a bowl and add enough warm water to cover them.  Soak for 15 minutes.  Drain and discard the soak water.  Hand-squeeze any excess water from them.  This process will soften them, making it easier to blend.




To create doughnut shapes I used 1/4 cup of “dough” per doughnut.

Roll into a ball shape.

I then used an apple corer to press down into the middle.  ? removed the center dough beautifully!

I dipped the apple corer in a glass water in between doughnuts so it would glide in easily.

If the donut batter is cracking too much while forming, that means your batter is too dry.  Put back in the food processor with a little water to make the batter moister.




Place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F)  for anywhere between 2-6 hours.

When making these for the first time, I recommend testing the moistness of the doughnuts throughout the dry time.  Once it hits the sweet spot of your liking, make a note for future times.  I like my doughnuts after about 2-3 hour, still dampish, moist but dry on the outside.




Store in a sealed container in the fridge to extend shelf life. In the fridge, they should last 5-7 days, in the freezer 1 month.

Serve with hot coffee or a glass of cold milk (or, if you are feeling particularly decadent, a mug of hot cocoa).

Decorate as you desire.  I used Chocolate Ganache Frosting.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.

What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



