Beetroot Juice for Food Dye
https://nouveauraw.com/pastry-and-decorating-techniques/beetroot-juice/



	Beetroot Juice for Food Dye

													    
    


				
Beetroot Juice for Food Dye
This post is all about me sharing with you a kitchen shortcut.  There are many fascinating tidbits that I could share about beets.  But I am going to do my best to stay focused here today.  :)



There have been many times in those recipe creating moments when I have needed a red food coloring.  I won’t use the typical #40 red food dye that you find on your local grocery shelves, and to be honest, the natural food dyes… well, I find that they lack the luster and vibrancy that I like.  I know that beetroot juice is a wonderful and natural dye… I have a stain on my chef’s coat that always reminds me of that. hehe

But here is one issue that I always come up against…  I never seem to have any fresh beets on hand when inspiration hits me.   And an 18 mile round trip to the grocery store is a sure bet inspiration killer.   Beet powder is always an option, especially when you don’t want to add additional liquid to a recipe, but even that can be hard to find.

So, I decided to juice some beets and freeze the juice in 1/4 cup portions. Within my collection of mason jars, I fell in love with my itty-bitty 4 0z jars.  They hold 1/4 cup of juice beautifully!  And yes, that sentence does require an exclamation point… because I find this downright exciting… don’t you?  :)   Of course, you can freeze it in any increment you want.  Ice cube trays work perfectly as well.

Please note that the number of beets needed to create a specific volume will always vary.  It will depend on the freshness and quality of the beets.  So, please use the amounts given as a guideline.   So, when the time comes, the inspiration bug hits, and you find yourself in dire need of red food dye… pull a jar of juice from the freeze, allow it to thaw, and surrender to the creative gods of raw!

Now is when I typically would go on and on as to how healthy beets can be for us, but I promised to stay focused.  So for more reading enjoyment, you can check this site out.  A nutritious food dye… gotta love that. If you scroll down towards the end of this post, I shared some information I found about what they see in studies about food dyes.  Scary.

Ingredients:

2 cups


2-3 lbs of red beets roots


Preparation:


For beet juice as a food dye, I juiced only the root, not the stem or leaves.  These do add high nutrients to the juice if you want to create a drink, though.

Trim the stem from the beetroots and give them a good scrubbing under running water.


Juicer method:


Roughly chop the beets according to the chute size that your juicer has and juice accordingly.

Pour into safe freezer jars or in an ice-cube tray and place in the freezer.


Blender method:


Rough chop the clean beets and place them in the blender.   I recommend only filling the container up halfway.

Add roughly 1/4 cup of water and blend until the beets are completely broken down and in liquid form.

Pour the juice into a nut bag and squeeze the juice from the bag into a large bowl.  The pulp can be saved for cracker making if you wish.  Otherwise, place it in the compost.

Note – Beet juice stains!


 Artificial Food Dye Dangers


Red 2 – carcinogenic; increases bladder tumor risk; found on Florida oranges.

Red 3 – thyroid carcinogen; banned from external use products; found in maraschino cherries, sausage, and candy, among others.

Red 40 – most common food dye; linked to allergies and ADHD in children; found in candy, cereal, desserts, drugs, and cosmetics, among others.

Yellow 5 – currently undergoing testing, linked to behavioral problems in children; found in beverages, candy, cereal, gelatin, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetics, among others.

Yellow 6 – currently undergoing testing; suspected of causing adrenal tumors and hypersensitivity; found in baked goods, cereal, candy, gelatin, and cosmetics, among others.

Blue 1 – currently undergoing testing; suspected of causing kidney tumors; found in beverages, candy, cereal, and pharmaceuticals.

Blue 2 – currently undergoing testing; suspected of increasing tumor risk – especially of the brain; found in beverages, candy, pet food, and pharmaceuticals.

Green 3 – currently undergoing testing; suspected of causing tumors of the bladder and testes; found in personal care products, ice cream, beverages, lipstick, and other cosmetics.

(source)





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



