Double Chocolate Doughnuts
https://nouveauraw.com/pastries/double-chocolate-doughnuts/



	Double Chocolate Cake Doughnuts

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

What I truly appreciate about cake doughnuts is that they stray towards the drier end of the spectrum because it makes them perfect to enjoy with a cup of coffee, tea or “milk.”

 

These double chocolate cake doughnuts are carefully hand-dipped in a rich, creamy chocolate ganache frosting, and topped with a large array of “rainbow sprinkles!”  Take a peek into your pantry and see what creative ingredients you already have on hand.  I used; hemp seeds, crushed walnuts, raw coconut crystals, my raw colorful sprinkles, shredded coconut, raw cacao nibs and lastly (and my favorite)… flaked pink sea salt.



 

Cancel all plans!


I hope you don’t have any plans this Saturday morning.  Because you do now.  You will be making homemade raw double chocolate cake doughnuts.



 

I really do hope you take the time to make these some weekend (or any day that fits into your schedule) it is a fun process to do with your family.  Set up a buffet of topping and let your friend/family create their own favorite masterpiece.  And by all means, get those young ones in the kitchen to help you…  unleashing creativity starts early.



 

Irish Moss Gel or Kelp Paste


It is a must that I touch basis on this ingredient because it pops up every so often.  The main question, “Do I have to use it? Or What can I use instead?”  Anything is possible when it comes to subbing out ingredients.  But I spend a lot of time developing recipes that have great flavor, texture, and appearance.  Since many people have a hard time finding Irish moss (unless mail ordered), I came up with the idea of creating a paste from raw kelp noodles.  I can now happily report that both worked perfectly.  The purpose behind these pastes/gels is to give some added nutrition but as equally important… the cake-like texture.  If you are dead-set against using these ingredients, my next go-to would be a few tablespoons of psyllium husks.  Have fun experimenting, but I highly recommend making the recipe that I designed first.
 

So it is Doughnut or Donut?


Even I, myself, find that I use these two words interchangeably.  It started to bug me, not knowing for sure which was the correct way to spell it.  So which spelling is correct?  Actually, both are. The doughnut is historically accurate which dates back to the mid-1800s. The shortened donut version wasn’t popularized until the late 20th century.  So the heck with it… I will allow my “mood of the day” to determine which spelling I might or might not use.  Frankly, as long as they taste amazing, I don’t care how it is spelled. Hehe,  Enjoy!



 

Ingredients:

Yields 14-15 (1/4 cup batter per donut)


1 cup oat flour

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

1/4 cup raw cacao powder + 1 Tbsp

3 Tbsp raw coconut flour

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 cups moist almond pulp

1/2 cup Irish moss or kelp paste

1/4 cup raw yacon syrup

1/4 cup date paste

2 Tbsp raw agave nectar or maple syrup

1 Tbsp lemon juice



Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the oat flour, ground flax seeds, cacao powder, coconut flour, and salt. Process until mixed.

Add the moist almond pulp, Irish moss gel or kelp paste, yacon syrup, date paste, agave and lemon juice.  Blend till everything is well incorporated.

Depending on how moist your almond pulp is, you may need to add water, so the dough sticks together nicely.  If you do, do this by adding 1 Tbsp at a time.




To create doughnut shapes I used 1/4 cup of “dough” per doughnut.

I rolled in into a ball, then slightly flattened it.

I then used an apple corer to press down into the middle.  This removed the center dough beautifully!

I dipped the apple corer in a glass water in between doughnuts so it would glide in easily.




Place on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dehydrate at 115 degrees (F)  anywhere between 2-6 hours.

When making these for the first time, I recommend testing the moistness of the doughnuts throughout the dry time.  Once it hits the sweet spot of your liking, make a note for future times.  I like my doughnuts after about 2-3 hour, still dampish, moist but dry on the outside.




Store in a sealed container in the fridge to extend shelf life.

I decorated mine with raw Chocolate Ganache Frosting and added some shredded coconut on a few too.

Serve with hot coffee or a glass of cold milk (or, if you are feeling particularly decadent, a mug of hot cocoa).





Time to make the doughnuts!











 Dip in ganache and top with your favorite super-foods!

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



