Ginger Coconut Quinoa and Mango Pudding "Jarfait"
https://nouveauraw.com/pudding-mousse/ginger-coconut-quinoa-and-mango-pudding-jarfait/



	Ginger Coconut and Mango Pudding “Jarfait”

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This pudding is the perfect compilation of the Tropics with a slight hint of coconut, the gentle sweetness of mangos, and a soft heat from the ginger. It is very filling and will keep you energized for hours to come.

I have really come to enjoy quinoa for multiple reasons. It can be used both in sweet or savory dishes, it has a neutral flavor that compliments just about any ingredients that you through at it, and best of all, it is a complete protein.

Do you ever eat something and forget that it is healthy for you?  This recipe is one of those times.   Mangos have high levels of fiber, pectin, and vitamin C, stir that in with some ginger which helps to combat inflammation and you have an amazing treat right before your very eyes!

But all of those healthy statistics will fade as you take a bite of this pudding.  The creaminess of the coconut quinoa, the sweet blend of mango, and the warmth of ginger will soon fill your belly.   You could eat the two components separately, or as shown here as a parfait.

Alternative to Quinoa

I have made this recipe many times over the years, and one particular time, I had unexpectedly run out of quinoa. So, I used chia seeds instead. It too has a neutral flavor and looks and feels similar to quinoa in this recipe. I love having options as it makes my life much easier and when I step into the kitchen I want grace and ease to greet me. :) I do hope you try this recipe and try it. Please comment below. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Ginger Coconut Quinoa: yields 4 cups


4 cups prepared quinoa, cooked or sprouted

1 1/2 cups raw coconut milk or canned (BPA free)

1/4 cup maple syrup

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp ground ginger


Mango Pudding: yields 2 cups


2 large sweet mangoes, ripe


Preparation:


Cook or Sprout quinoa:

Cook ~  Rinse quinoa till water runs clear.  Combine 1 cup quinoa and 2 cups of water in a medium-sized saucepan. Bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce heat to medium-low; cover and simmer 15 minutes or until most of the liquid is absorbed. Turn off heat and let stand covered for 5 minutes.

Sprout ~ to make approx. 4 cups finished product, put 2 1/2 cups of quinoa in a large bowl or jar.  Add 2-3 times as much cool (60-70 degree) water.  Mix quinoa well to assure even water contact throughout.  Soak for 20-30 minutes. Then drain off the soak water, rinse well and drain.  Place a mesh lid on the jar and set it anywhere out of direct sunlight and at room temperature (70° is optimal).  Rinse and Drain again every 8-12 hours until tails are formed.  Now it is ready to use.




After cooking or sprouting the quinoa, combine the quinoa with coconut milk, maple syrup, cinnamon, and ginger in a medium-sized bowl.

To make the mango pudding, peel the mango with a potato peeler, cut the mango flesh off of the seed and discard the seed.

Blend the mango in the blender until creamy.

Alternate the quinoa and mango in a mason jar or dessert dish of your liking.

Eat right away or chill in the fridge.  This should keep for about 5 days in the fridge.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



