Raw Pomegranate and Vanilla Bean Pudding
https://nouveauraw.com/pudding-mousse/pomegranate-and-vanilla-bean-pudding/



	Pomegranate and Vanilla Bean Pudding

													    
    


				

This recipe came to life when I created my Raw Pomegranate and Vanilla Bean Ice Cream.  After I had made the batter for the ice cream, I slid it into the fridge overnight.  It only needs to go in there for about one hour, but I wasn’t able to tend to it till the next day.

When I took the lid off of the blender canister to pour it into the ice cream machine, it, it, it didn’t pour.  It stayed perfectly in place.  I grabbed a spoon to swirl it around a bit and instantly I thought… Pudding!  It was perfect for pudding as well.

Two (if not more) desserts for the price of one.  You have to love “kitchen helpers” such as that.   So next time, you plan on hosting a gathering in your home, you can make this batter and create several different recipes from it.  Variety is the spice of life, well that and cinnamon.  :)

So as you can see in the photo to the right, I layered it with Raw Cranberry and Pomegranate Relish.  You could use anything though.  Fresh berries and/or granola would be divine.    You can make these up 1-2 days in advance as long as you keep it good and covered, so it doesn’t absorb fridge odors.

Now, before, I release you… all you jar lovers out there… I know that I will be getting emails asking me where I got these little gems so to save you the time, you can order them here.  They are about as adorable as they can be.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

yields 6 cups batter


2 cups raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

3/4 cup full fat coconut milk or raw thick cream

2 cups fresh pressed pomegranate juice

1 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup raw coconut butter

1 vanilla bean, seeds only

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt



Preparation:




Drain, rinse, and discard the soak water from the cashews.

In a high-speed combine the cashews, coconut cream, pomegranate juice, agave, coconut butter, vanilla bean seeds, and salt. Blend until completely smooth.  This may take a good 3-4 minutes.  You don’t want any graininess left from the cashews.  Be sure to stop the blender every once in a while to test the texture.  Once it is nice and smooth, you can move on to the next step.

Pour the mixture into single serving bowls and chill to firm up.

The pudding should last 3-5 days in the fridge.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



