Tapioca Vanilla Custard and Mixed Berries
https://nouveauraw.com/pudding-mousse/tapioca-vanilla-custard-and-mixed-berries/



	Tapioca Vanilla Custard and Mixed Berries

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free ~

I have made this recipe many times over, and it always delights me with every bite I take. This “tapioca” recipe has a non-dairy, sweet, creamy custard base and instead of tapioca pearls which require cooking, I used chia seeds. Somewhat similar in texture, they create a fun experience.

If you are able to get your hands on white chia seeds, it would be all that much better.. more authentic looking but don’t lock yourself into them. I have had great success with the black ones.

This recipe can be made without the kelp paste since chia seeds have a jelly property all by themselves, but there is an another element that the kelp paste added that I can’t quite put my finger on.  It gave it that custard texture.

But not only that, kelp paste has some really amazing health properties and isn’t that why we eat clean, raw foods?  To increase the nutrients of that which we eat? Well, that and it tastes good. :)

Kelp noodles are high in iodine, which can support your thyroid function.  They are also rich in calcium and magnesium, and other trace minerals, in naturally occurring forms that make them easier for the body to absorb and utilize.

Among other things, Calcium and Magnesium which is known to play a role in treating  PMS symptoms and menstrual cramps in some women.   Kelp is also abundant in folic acid, which supports proper nerve function, and prevents certain types of anemia. Kelp noodles have become the new “Irish moss.”

I hope you try this recipe and keep me posted, as always I want to know what you think. Blessings!

Ingredients:

yields 3 cups

Almond cream:


3 cups water

2 cup raw almonds, soaked


Add in:


1 cup kelp paste

1/2 cup raw honey

3 tsp vanilla extract

dash Himalayan pink salt

3 Tbsp chia seeds


Toppings:


Diced fresh, organic berries

Drizzle on raw honey


Preparation:


Soak the almonds for 8 hours, drain and rinse.

Add 2 cups of water to the blender and then the almonds.  Blend on high for 30 seconds.  Pour the mixture into a nut bag and squeeze the almond cream into a bowl.  Keep the leftover almond pulp for other fun recipes.

Rinse the blender and add the almond cream, kelp paste, honey, vanilla, and salt.  Blend for 30 seconds.  Pour into a medium-sized bowl.

Add chia seeds, stir, making sure that there aren’t any lumps.  Place in the fridge overnight.  This will give the kelp paste and chia seeds the time needed to do their magic.

Before placing in serving dishes, give the custard a good stir, add to serving bowls and top with mixed berries.

Eat within 2-3 days.  Don’t freeze.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



