Delectable Dark Rich Chocolate Pudding (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/pudding-mousse/delectable-dark-rich-chocolate-pudding/



	Delectable Dark Rich Chocolate Pudding

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Let’s talk puddin’ (pooodin as I would say).  Have you ever had a pudding before where you took one bite, and you got that O-M-G-I-Have-Died-And-Gone-To-Heaven, response?  This is exactly the experience I had this afternoon when I made this dessert for a friend of mine.  Of course, I had to taste test it… right?!

The avocado performs a magic show in this delectable dark rich chocolate pudding.  It gives it the creamy, rich base that can often be hard to achieve in the raw culinary world. Cashews come in close, but for this pudding, you need to give avocados a try if you haven’t already.    BUT I warn you; please make sure that is it ripe!   An unripe avocado is not pleasing to the pallet, as most people find it bitter-tasting.  So, if you avocados are still hard, you can rush it, you must have patience.

I used maple syrup in my recipe which is not a raw product.   But it is known to have some health properties, and it is more alkaline to the body than some other sweeteners.  It all just depends on what you are aiming for as to what sweetener you choose.

This natural sweetener features over 54 antioxidants that can help delay or prevent diseases caused by free radicals, such as cancer or diabetes. In addition, maple syrup features high levels of zinc and manganese, keeping the heart healthy and boosting the immune system.  Did you know that pure maple syrup has the same beneficial classes of antioxidant compounds found in berries, tomatoes, tea, red wine, whole wheat, and flax-seed?

In the photo to the right,  you can see that I have a little crust at the bottom of my pudding.  I had been making some other raw treats and had a ball of leftover dough that consisted of; almonds, dates, cinnamon, and salt.  Have fun with it!

Ingredients:

yields 2 1/2 cups


1 2/3 cups ripe avocado (2 large)

1/2 cup maple syrup

1/2 cup almond milk or coconut milk for nut-free

6 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Peel the skins and remove the pits from the avocado.   Cut any bruises parts off and discard.

In the blender place the avocado, maple syrup, almond milk. Cacao powder and salt.  Process until smooth and creamy.

Maple syrup – instead use; raw agave, coconut nectar, liquid stevia, raw honey.  Taste test as you go to achieve the level of sweetness that you enjoy.

Almond milk – if you have nut allergens, you can try making hemp milk, use coconut water or water alone.  Keep in mind these will change the flavor what I created.




Keep in the fridge.  Should keep for 3-4 days safely.




 

 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



