Raw Tapioca Almond Custard with Rhubarb Strawberry Sauce
https://nouveauraw.com/pudding-mousse/tapioca-almond-custard-with-rhubarb-strawberry-sauce/



	Tapioca Almond Custard with Rhubarb Strawberry Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

The story of this recipe is one of evolution.  I started out wanting to make a raw pannacotta, but right off the bat, I over-processed my kelp paste.  So instead of a “strong” form, it had the consistency that reminded me of soft custard.  I didn’t want to throw it away, and I couldn’t leave well enough alone,  so, I stirred in some chia seeds and placed it in the fridge overnight.

In the morning there it was; what looked just like tapioca! I couldn’t have planned this recipe any better had I tried from the get-go.  It was exactly what I had been searching for some time and here I “stumbled” upon it.

The title really says it all.  It has the texture of custard and tapioca; there’s the creamy sweetness of a custard and the … shoot, I am struggling to find the right words to give this dessert the justice that it deserves.  Plus the rhubarb and strawberries on top, give it a sweet and sour balance that marries it all together.

This recipe can be made without the kelp paste since chia seeds have a jelly property all by themselves, but there is an another element that the kelp paste added that I can’t quite put my finger on.

It gave it that custard texture that I spoke about above, but not only that, kelp paste has some really amazing health properties and isn’t that why we eat clean, raw foods?  To increase the nutrients of that which we eat?  Well, that and great taste :)

Alternatively, if you don’t want to make kelp paste, can’t find it locally, or just don’t have the time, you can use full-fat coconut milk. It won’t be quite as thick, but it really tastes amazing as well. It’s good to have options. Don’t you agree?! I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 3 cups

Almond cream:


2-3 cups water

2 cup raw almonds


Add in:


1 cup kelp paste

1/2 cup raw honey

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/2 tsp almond extract

dash Himalayan pink salt

3 Tbsp chia seeds


Toppings:


Diced fresh strawberries

Rustic Style Rhubarb Sauce


Preparation:


Soak the almonds for 8 hours, drain and rinse.

Add 2-3 cups of water to the blender and then the almonds.  Blend on high for 30 seconds.

Start with 2 cups of water, add up to a total of 3 if you want it a bit thinner.

Pour the mixture into a nut bag and squeeze the almond milk/cream into a bowl.

Keep the almond pulp for other fun recipes.




Rinse the blender and add the milk/cream, kelp paste, honey, vanilla, almond extract, and salt.  Blend for 30 seconds.  Pour into a medium-sized bowl.

Add chia seeds, stir, making sure that there aren’t any lumps.

Place in the fridge overnight.

This will give the kelp paste and chia seeds the time needed to do their magic.




Before placing in serving dishes, give the custard a good stir, add to serving bowls and top with diced strawberries and the marinated rhubarb.

Eat within 2-3 days.  Don’t freeze.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



