Strawberry Maca Chia Pudding with Lemon Cream
https://nouveauraw.com/pudding-mousse/strawberry-maca-chia-pudding-with-lemon-cream/



	Strawberry Maca Chia Pudding with Lemon Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

In my book, strawberries and lemon play well together.  Sweet and tart.  This recipe is quite versatile .. want to enjoy it for dessert?  Call it a pudding.  Want to have it for breakfast?  Call it a porridge.

Want it for a snack?  Call it “The-I-am-starving-I-need-food-please-get-out-of-my-way” snack. Lol,  There are really so many wonderful things to say about the ingredients used in this treat, but I am going to narrow it down to just one today.

Did you know that chia seeds are a wonderful source of Omega-3 & Omega 6-Fatty Acids? They have eight times more Omega-3 fatty acids than salmon—nearly 5,000 milligrams per ounce—which is one of the most concentrated sources of Omega-3 in any food.  It also contains high amounts of Omega-6.

Everyone needs to consume these Essential Fatty Acids in their diet because these EFAs build new cells and regulate various processes throughout the body.

In addition to boosting heart health by supporting lower cholesterol and reducing blood pressure, omegas are key to healthy skin, hair, and nails.

Talk about a super-duper seed!  Or more like a super-duper… pudding… or porridge or an  “I-am-starving-I-need-food-please-get-out-of-my-way” snack! I hope you enjoy this quick and easy recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 6 cups – I made 8 ( 8 oz ) jars



Strawberry pudding:

14 oz  raw thick coconut cream or canned coconut cream 

2 cups almond milk

2 cups organic strawberries, divided

2 Tbsp maca powder

1 tsp liquid stevia

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup chia seeds


Lemon Cream:  yields 2 cups


1 cup cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup coconut oil, liquid

1/4 cup almond milk

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/4 cup fresh lemon juice

1/8 tsp sea salt


Preparation:

Strawberry pudding:


In the blender combine the coconut cream, almond milk, 1 cup strawberries, maca, stevia,  and salt.  Blend until the berries are pureed into the batter.

While the blender is running, slowly feed the chia seeds in so they don’t clump up.

Add the remaining 1 cup of strawberries and pulse for 10 seconds, leaving chunks of berries.

Allow the mixture to sit for 20 minutes so the chia seeds can thicken everything up.

Pour into jars and place in the fridge to firm up.  This is a good time to make the Lemon Cream.


Lemon Cream:


After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse.  Don’t skip the soaking process; it helps to release phytic acid which is hard on the digestive system and to soften the nuts which will help in achieving a smooth cream.

In the blender combine the cashews, coconut oil, milk, maple syrup, lemon juice, and salt.  Blend until smooth and creamy.  Stop the machine occasionally to test for grittiness.  Keep blending till you no longer feel grit.

Place the cream in a ziplock bag or piping bag.  This will give you control as you pipe it over the pudding.

Remove the pudding from the fridge and pipe the cream on top.  Serve right away or cover and keep in the fridge for 3-5 days.








© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



