Raw and Vegan Spinach Dip
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/spinach-dip/



	Spinach Dip

													    
    


				

Spinach Dip




~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This vegan spinach dip is a “show-stopping” recipe to add to your repertoire.  I will go as far as saying, “Let me show you the way to heaven with a spoon!” It is creamy, full-bodied, and sumptuous.  It’s so amazing that this can be achieved by using only whole foods and no added substitutes.

You don’t have to be a raw foodie to partake of this recipe.  Next time you go to a party replace with the typical dairy laden, colon clogging, “run of the mill” stuff with this and be prepared to wow everyone.

You see I created this recipe for my little sister who is serious about spinach dip.  She knows her stuff and trust me, I was sweating bullets as I watched her take the first bite.

Her response… She said that she wanted the recipe so she could make it for her co-workers.  I sighed a sigh of relief, sponged the wet dew from my forehead and grinned from ear to ear.  I normally can’t pull the wool over her eyes when it comes to dairy products, but this recipe fooled her. :)

This recipe is light and refreshing that can only be achieved with fresh spinach.  I don’t recommend using frozen spinach because as it thaws it will release a lot of water and “muddy” up your dip. Although this recipe can be eaten right away, I will say that it tastes better the next day.  You will notice a tiny bit of liquid on top of the bowl after it sits overnight.  Not to be alarmed, just stir it back in and enjoy.

I served this dip with my “Club” Crackers which can be found (here), but don’t limit to just that one. I have so many wonderful cracker recipes that it would taste wondrous upon. Click (here) to flip through them. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue


Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups dip



8 packed cups (263 g) spinach

1/2  red onion, diced (3/4 cup, 90 g)


Sauce: yields 4 1/2 cups


1 cup (195 g) water

1/3 cup (70 g ) fresh-squeezed lemon juice

2 cups (279 g) raw cashew pieces, soaked 2+ hours

2 Tbsp (12 g) nutritional yeast

2 – 4 (3-6 g) garlic cloves

1/2 – 1 tsp  (7 g) Himalayan pink salt

2-4 Tbsp (20-40 g) organic, cold-pressed olive oil





Preparation:



After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse before adding to the recipe.

Chop the spinach and red onion, place in mixing bowl.

Place the ingredients in the following order into the blender; water, lemon juice, cashews, nutritional yeast, garlic, and salt. Blend until smooth.

Depending on the blender, this can take 1-3 minutes.  Once the sauce is smooth, drizzle in the olive oil while the blender is running.  Blend just until incorporated.




Pour the sauce into the bowl with spinach and onion and mix.

Chill for 1-2 hours to increase the dips thickness.

Garnish with chopped red bell pepper or more onion for color.

This should keep for 2-3 days in the fridge. I don’t recommend freezing.


 









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



