Creamy Ranch Coleslaw (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/salads/creamy-ranch-coleslaw/



	Creamy Ranch Coleslaw

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Coleslaw is a no-frills comfort-food classic, and perfect for when you want to lighten up your palate, it is versatile, comes in all colors and textures and is the perfect accompaniment to any summer entree.

This recipe makes a fresh, crisp, creamy, sweet, and savory dish with the added bonus of being raw and vegan. Adding in my Discovery Ranch dressing creates a creaminess without being heavy, with a good herbal kick and a subtle garlic presence. Sounds inviting, doesn’t it?

Table Etiquette

Table etiquette often goes right out the door with me.  Though I don’t chew with my mouth open; I don’t scrape the fork on my teeth, I don’t put my elbows on the table…. well hold on, I need to be honest here. First, off you should know that according to Etiquette Scholar, it’s fine to put your elbows on the table when you’re not using your cutlery.

When licking the bowl clean, I am not using any cutlery, so I am safe.  I need the extra leverage when it comes to getting every drop of that creamy dressing. So it’s not bad etiquette, it’s just good form. hehe

I do have enough etiquette common sense to not do this in public, but Bob has caught me in the act many times in our own home.  And perhaps, just perhaps, I have caught him too. (wink, wink)

I would like to throw out that if you have a hard time digesting raw cabbage, there is no harm in lightly sauteeing it on the stovetop, making this a warm salad. No need to caught up in food (dietary) labels, I want all of you to get caught up in eating according to what benefits your body the most.  Well, it’s time for me to get ready for a painting class this evening and it’s time for you to hop into the kitchen and get busy. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 6 cups


6 cups (275 g) finely shredded cabbage

1 cup (60 g) broccoli florets

1/3 cup (60 g) diced white onion

1/2 cup (112 g) diced red bell pepper

1/2 cup Discovery Ranch Dressing

1/4 cup  (46 g) raisins

1/2 tsp crushed black pepper


Preparation:


In a large bowl combine the cabbage, broccoli, onion, red bell pepper, ranch dressing, raisins, and black pepper.  Mix well.

I found that I enjoyed this recipe the best when I shredded the cabbage very finely.

For the broccoli, I just used the heads, leaving the stems out of it.

You can add more dressing if needed, depends on how creamy you like your slaw.




Store leftovers in the fridge for about three days.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



