Veggie Chowder with Pepper Jack Cheese
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/soup/veggie-chowder-pepper-jack-cheese/



	Veggie Chowder with Pepper Jack Cheese

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

As you will notice in the following pictures, this soup looks out of this world amazing… I mean, look at that yellow.   The reason that it turned out so vibrant was the use of a spice called turmeric.  Turmeric is known to improve digestive strength by increasing blood flow.

Turmeric is also an anti-inflammatory which helps in reducing arthritis and inflammation, alleviating pain, and strengthening joints and tendons.  It is said to treat gout, rheumatoid arthritis, and osteoarthritis. The anti-inflammatory activities are also useful in asthma, broken bones, and wounds.  All this AND it made my soup really yellow. :)  If you want to learn more about it, this is a great site that goes into further detail.

But here’s the thing… in order to get the health benefits of Turmeric, it needs to be combined with black pepper.  Adding black pepper to turmeric or turmeric-spiced food enhances curcumin’s bioavailability by 1,000 times, due to black pepper’s hot property called a pipeline.  For more reading on this subject matter, click (here).

And since we are talking about black pepper… Did you know that white pepper is black pepper with the outer skin removed? And that green pepper is black pepper before the drying process?   Fascinating! This was about as exciting to me as it was to find out that a plate of brown gravy-drenched french fries and mashed potatoes was nothing but a plate of potatoes!  (childhood specialty dish that I use to order when we ate out haha).

To really experience black pepper, I suggest trying out whole black peppercorns instead of the pre-ground black pepper that we are all used to.  Grind whole black peppercorns yourself for maximum freshness and effectiveness.  The medicinal effect of spices usually comes from essential oils which evaporate quickly after grinding.

One thing that I look for in recipes is a description of how it tastes.  Pictures are always a must because I want to know that if my soup looks bright yellow, that it is supposed to do so!    So texture and taste… texturally, the soup base is slightly creamy but thickens a tad more as it ages, and the freshness of the veggies give it a nice crisp feel.  Taste-wise,  the first word to leave Bob’s lips was… HEAVEN, followed by a slew of “nom-nom-nom-nom.”  He did comment that it was spicy, which he loved but suggested that I might tame down the spices on the recipe when I shared it.  I am sorry, but if my husband says that the soup tastes like HEAVEN, I am not adjusting anything. :)  Soooo, with that in mind, if you are sensitive to spice, start with less and build up.   The combination of black pepper, cayenne and garlic are the spice culprits.  Garlic in the raw form is quite pungent and adds heat to any dish.

I failed to document how much this recipe yielded.  I do know that it made four good-sized soup bowls worth.  Read further for ideas on how to warm the soup if the day is chilly.  Enjoy!

Oh, one last thing… sorry, I know that you are anxious to get started, but if you aren’t able to eat cashews, you could substitute with hemp or sunflower seeds. OK, now go…

Ingredients:

yields 4 servings


2 cups almond milk

1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/2 cup diced mixed veggies

3 tsp maple syrup

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1 small garlic clove

1 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp freshly cracked black pepper

1 tsp onion powder

1/2 tsp dried thyme

1/4 tsp ground turmeric

1/4 tsp cayenne

2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil

1  1/2 cups diced mixed veggies (corn, carrot, peas)


Preparation:


Soak, drain, and rinse the cashews before adding to the blender.

In a high-powered blender add; almond milk, cashews, 1/2 cup of diced veggies, maple syrup, lemon juice, garlic clove, nutritional yeast, salt, pepper, onion, thyme, turmeric, and cayenne.  Blend until creamy.  You shouldn’t feel any bits of cashews in the sauce.

While the blender is running, drizzle in the olive oil until it emulsifies.  Pour into a medium-sized container that seals.

Add the other 1  1/2 cups of diced mixed veggies and stir.

Store in the fridge for 2-5 days.

Optional: top with Vegan Pepper Jack Cheese... ought to be a requirement :)


Warming Suggestions:


Allow the soup to warm to room temperature and enjoy.

Place the serving bowl in hot water, allowing it to heat up before adding the soup.  This will help take a little extra chill off of the soup and make it cozy warm to hold in your hands.

Pour a serving size of soup in a mason jar, place lid on top, and tighten… immerse the jar in hot water till it warms the soup to your liking.

Pour into a small saucepan and heat on the stove.  Use your fingertip as the temperature gauge; it shouldn’t get too hot for your finger.  You can also use a thermometer gauge if this concerns you.

Dehydrator – if you have a “box” shaped dehydrator such as the Excalibur, pour the soup into a wide mouth baking dish and turn the heat to 145  (F) degrees.  Warm for 30-60 minutes.  You can also place the temperature at 115 degrees and heat for 3-4 hours.  You will need to gauge this.   The more soup that exposed to the air, the quicker it will warm.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



