Cinnamon Apple Pear Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/cinnamon-apple-pear-sauce/



	Cinnamon Apple Pear Sauce

													    
    


				 



~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

The fruits of autumn are ones that I most enjoy. Perhaps I am growing partial to pears because we have a pear orchard, but there is just something magical about them.  As I walk through the endless rows of pear trees, I inhale their lovely perfume, for it is one that only comes in autumn.

There are several ways that you can approach this recipe.  You can make it creamy smooth as I did, or you could make rustically chunky.  Both have great mouth-feel, it just depends on your mood. To make it smooth and creamy remove the skins but for that rustic look, leave the peels on and let the flecks of color shine through.

Taste-wise, make sure that you use crispy, juicy and ripe apples and pears, it is crucial for optimal taste. No amount of blending will make a mealy, tasteless apple or pear any better.  The natural sweetness of these two fruits makes this homemade sauce a standout over the store-bought version. Truthfully, once you make your own raw version of apple or apple-pear sauce, you will be amazed how easy and delicious it is.

Along with the apples and pears, I put in a splash of lemon juice to add a hint of brightness. It also keeps the fruit from browning. A dash of cinnamon rounds it all out by lending a warm spice note.

Whenever I am blending fruits into an undiluted sauce, I’m mindful of the concentrated load of carbohydrates (sugars) present.   I have read that by pairing them with a healthy fat, it helps to reduce their glycemic load.  Basically, it is slowing down how quickly the body takes them into your system.  Fiber also helps to slow things down, such as oatmeal.  I know that there are the food combining rules… I guess the bottom line is to pay attention how your body reacts to food and do what is best for you.

A great way to enjoy this sauce is to warm it up on a chilly, winter day.  Place a single serving in a wide-mouthed bowl, slid into the dehydrator and warm at 145 degrees for 30 minutes or until warm.  Other ways to “add warmth” to your food is through spices such as ginger, cardamom, cloves, nutmeg, fennel, and saffron.  I hope you enjoy this simple yet delicious recipe.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1 organic apple

1 organic ripe pear

2 Tbsp melted coconut oil

2 tsp fresh lemon juice

1/2 tsp ground cinnamon

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Wash, peel, rough chop, core the apple and pear.

Place the apple, pear, coconut oil, lemon juice, cinnamon and salt in the blender.  Blend until creamy smooth.

Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-5 days.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.



Culinary Explanations:


When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



