Queso Blanco Mexican Cheese Dip (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/spreads-cheeses/queso-blanco-mexican-cheese-dip/



	Queso Blanco Mexican Cheese Dip

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

One can never have enough “cheese” recipes in their arsenal.   My husband is a snacker, more like a grazer, so I like to keep the kitchen stocked with raw treats that he can indulge in whenever the mood strikes.

This dip can be used in so many ways; dip your veggies in it, pour over lightly steamed veggies, dip your chips or crackers, eat it with a  spoon (sheepishly looks away), spread it on a wrap or sandwich or or or… I used a can of green chilies for this recipe.  If you are 100% raw you can use raw, fresh chilies, diced, or just omit them.  But they do add a nice flavor to this yummy cheese dip.



I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields approx. 2 cups


1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hours

1 1/2 cups chopped orange or red bell pepper

1/4 cup nutritional yeast

1/2 tsp minced garlic

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp turmeric powder

1/4 tsp onion powder

1/2 tsp dry mustard powder

1/4 cup cold-pressed olive oil (optional)

1/4 cup canned green chilies or minced jalapeños


Preparation:


Place the cashews in a glass bowl, along with 4 cups of water.

Soak for at least 2 hours. Read more about why (here).

The soaking process will help reduce phytic acid, which will aid in digestion.

The soaking also softens the cashews so they blend nice and creamy.

After the cashews are through soaking, drain, and rinse.




In a high-speed blender combine the cashews, bell pepper, nutritional yeast, salt, garlic, turmeric, onion powder, and mustard powder.  Blend until smooth and creamy.

Make sure that you don’t feel any grit when you rub some of the batter between your fingers.  If you do, keep blending. This may take up to 5 minutes.  It depends on the blender!




Once the “cheese” sauce is smooth, while the blender is running, drizzle in the olive oil.  Don’t over-mix, just blend until combined.

You can omit the oil for a firmer cheese dip.




Hand mix in the chilies.

Store in a glass, air-tight container for up to a week.




Fun gift idea:  Jar up single servings of crackers and cheese.
It doesn’t even need to be for a gift… single servings are fun to
grab and go.  Or are perfect for game night.






 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



