Date Syrup (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/condiments/date-syrup/



	Date Syrup

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Talk about fast, easy, and healthy.  Sheesh,  does it get much better than this?   This would be a great staple to keep handy in the fridge.  You can use it on pancakes and waffles as a replacement of those other syrups which are made with high fructose corn syrup or other processed sugars.

Top off your oatmeal in the morning instead of brown sugar. Drizzle it over ice cream for the most delectable topping.  Need a splash of sweetness in your smoothie? Or if those midnight “raid the fridge” attacks hit you, eat it straight off a spoon for pure delight!

There are so many wonderful health benefits in dates as well.  They are free from cholesterol and are low-fat. They are a rich source of protein, dietary fiber, and rich in vitamins B1, B2, B3, and B5 along with A1 and C.

They are known to help improve the digestive system as it contains soluble and insoluble fibers and different kinds of amino acids. Want a natural energy booster? They contain natural sugars like glucose, sucrose, and fructose.

Dates are rich in potassium. Dates help in weight gain….. WAIT, HOLD THE TRAIN…. help in weight gain?!!  I so didn’t sign up for that benefit. haha From what I was reading it went on to say that they are beneficial for those who suffer from an over-slimming problem.  Well, that isn’t a problem for me so I guess like everything else, moderation is the key here.

Ingredients:



1 cup packed Medjool dates, pitted

1 cup water

1 tsp vanilla extract

¼ tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp fresh lemon juice


Preparation:


Remove the pits from the dates and blend all of the above ingredients in the blender.  Blend until creamy.

Store in the fridge for 1-2 weeks.


The Institute of Culinary Ingredients:


Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

Dates are an amazing ingredient for raw food recipes,  click (here) to read why.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



