Fresh Dill Avocado Spread
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/fresh-dill-avocado-spread/



	Fresh Dill Avocado Spread

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I have always been very fond of dill.  I find the aroma quite intoxicating. Whether I use it dried, fresh, or as an essential oil, I find myself lingering in its presence for a good few minutes.  It has a calming effect on the mind and body. Forget gifting a bouquet of flowers to me, wrap a ribbon around fresh dill, and you will make me one happy camper.

For this recipe, you can use either dried or fresh dill. But you can also use dill in the form of essential oil, which is what I am going to share a little bit about.  I have been using essential oils in my food prep for a while now and just love it.

Dill Essential Oil

I want to touch base on what it can do for the digestive system since that is one area that I am very passionate about.  A word of caution… Possible skin sensitivity. Keep out of reach of children. If you are pregnant, nursing, or under a doctor’s care, consult your physician. Avoid contact with eyes, inner ears, and sensitive areas.

Digestion:


Dilute 1-2 drops in 4 fl. oz. in fractionated coconut oil to minimize any skin sensitivity. Then rub it on your abdomen to support your body during times of occasional constipation or to reduce symptoms commonly referred to as gas.

Dill oil promotes digestion by stimulating the secretion of digestive juices like gastric juices, acids, and bile in the stomach. Its aroma also stimulates the salivary glands and thus aids in the primary digestion of the food in the mouth.

Dill also stimulates the peristaltic movement of the intestines and helps the ingested food to advance through them, thereby facilitating digestion and preventing conditions like constipation and piles.

Dill essential oil can efficiently handle gas trouble. It does not only help to remove gas from the intestine but also stops further gas from forming. Moreover, it gives the gases a safe downward passage by relaxing the muscles in the abdominal region. (source)


I love my digestion. Do you love yours?

It’s time to get those digestive juices flowing! Strap on that apron and get busy in the kitchen. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


2 Hass, ripe avocados

1-2 Tbsp raw coconut vinegar – to taste

2 Tbsp fresh dill /or/ 1-2 drops dill essential oil

1 1/2 tsp dried oregano

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Start with ripe avocados.  Firm ones will taste bitter.

Cut the avocados in half, toss the pit and place the flesh in the small bowl attachment that comes with the food processor.

If you don’t own one of these, you can mash this all together in a bowl with a fork or potato masher.




Add the vinegar, dill, oregano, and salt.  Process to desired texture.  It is lovely as a rustic, chunky guacamole or blended until creamy smooth.

Using dill essential oil? Due to the different viscosity levels of essential oils, I recommend that you don’t drop the oil directly into your mixture.  Drop the suggested amount on a spoon and then into your mixture to ensure you have the proper strength.  A little goes a long way.  Add one drop, stir, and taste. Repeat until you’ve reached your desired result.

Using fresh dill?  If you are going to mix this all together by hand, you will need to mince the fresh dill before adding it to the remaining ingredients.




This recipe is lovely used as a dip, toss it with some zucchini noodles, thin it out with a little water to use as a dressing, or spread it onto your favorite sandwich.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



