Chocolate Covered Almond Stuffed Dates
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/sweet-treats/chocolate-covered-stuffed-dates/



	Chocolate Covered Almond Stuffed Dates

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

A two-bite sweet, chocolatey, chewy, and crunchy treat. That about sums it up… but you know me… I always have more share. :)

Aaah, simplicity!  Freedom from complexity… the state of being uncomplicated… that my friend is music to my ears.  Dates are highly nutritional and considered by many to be one of nature’s perfect foods, this being the fact, so if this is true, why do I feel so guilty when I eat them?!

To me, they are like candy.  If you are new to dates, they taste almost like honey.  They have a sweet taste, but not too sweet.  Some describe them as having a rich buttery flavor with a hint of caramel.   There are many different types of dates but the one that I am talking about and using today is the Medjool date.  They are by far my favorite.

Dates are a very rich source of potassium. They are also an excellent source of iron, niacin, and vitamin B12.  Also, the fiber content in date fruit is relatively high.

A word of caution,  yes dates are sumptuous, and yes dates are good for you, but they are high in natural sugars, so eat them in moderation… oh, and brush your teeth after eating them due to those sugars and because they are sticky.  “Yesssssss mom…”  hehe I know, I know… but it is my job to look out for you.  :)

Look at the thick gooyness (that’s my word, and I am sticking to it. hehe) in the photo to the left… food porn!  That is what we have going on here!  Haha,   Enjoy and have a beautiful day!

Ingredients:

yields 24


24 large Medjool dates

48 raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup of hardening chocolate  or  vegan chocolate chips

1/2 cup dried shredded coconut


Preparation:


Cut each date in half, but not all the way through, and remove the pit.   Do this to each one and set it aside.

Stuff 2 almonds in each date and press the date closed.

Because they are moist, they will basically seal themselves.




Dip the date in chocolate.

Roll it around to cover every part of it.

Lift out with a fork and tap the fork on the edge of the bowl to knock off the excess chocolate.




Drop the chocolate covered date into a bowl of shredded coconut and toss around until well coated.  Do this step one at a time.

Place the dates on a plate or cookie sheet that is lined with wax paper.  Once they are all done, place them in the freezer to firm.

Serve cold or at room temperature.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



