Apple Cabbage Slaw (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/apple-cabbage-slaw/



	Apple Cabbage Slaw

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

A family feast just isn’t complete without a side of cool and creamy Apple-Cabbage Slaw. It’s refreshing, crunchy and healthy!

I prefer to shred my cabbage into bite-size pieces, and the apples give it a nice crunch.  The sweetness of the apples brings a new and refreshing flavor to an otherwise traditional coleslaw.

Did you know that cabbage is a beautiful vegetable that helps with cell detoxification?  It is also known to help with headaches and gastrointestinal concerns.

If one is looking for ingredients for a low-calorie diet, cabbage is at the top of the list. One cup of cabbage only holds about 15 calories.

It also contains manganese, folate, vitamin B6, potassium, calcium and omega-3 fatty acids. Toss in a little purple cabbage, and you get some anthocyanins, which are a phytochemical found in blueberries and beets.

Due to its relatively high amount of Vitamin C, cabbage also helps boost the Immune System, as well as assisting in removing toxins from the body, and playing a role in burning fat.

Important tip… Avoid buying precut cabbage, (halved or shredded) since once cabbage is cut, it begins to lose its valuable Vitamin C content.

So with all these incredible health benefits, I urge you to go ahead and dig in!  Because after all, it is tasty too. :) I hope you enjoy this beautiful salad. Please keep in touch and leave a comment below. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:




5 cups mixed cabbage, shredded

1 carrot, shredded

1 organic apple, shredded

3 Tbsp minced green onion

3/4 cup raw mayonnaise

1/4 cup honey

4 Tbsp lemon juice

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp black pepper

optional – toss in some raisins


Preparation:


Shred the cabbage, carrots, and apples.

You can use a box grater, food processor with the shredding attachment, or by simply slicing it very finely with a sharp knife.

Place in a bowl the green onions.




In a small bowl combine the mayo, honey, lemon juice, salt, and pepper.  Mix well.

Toss together all ingredients, making sure all of the veggies are evenly coated.

If possible, chill for at least an hour and toss thoroughly again before serving.  This will allow all the flavors to mingle and blend.  Chill overnight if you have the time (this makes the flavors soak in).




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



