Butter Thins™ (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/crackers/raw-gourmet-butter-crackers/



	Butter Thins™

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Irresponsibly delicious!

If we are being really honest, crackers are not the most exciting food in the world.  I mean seriously, when was the last time that you actually craved a cracker?

Do you ever find yourself craving crackers the way you’d lust after a beautifully ripened, juicy red watermelon or chocolate?  Probably not, but they are an absolute necessity when that salty, crunchy craving hits.

They are of course the perfect vehicle for your favorite cheeses and dips.  And once you bite into these flaky, buttery crackers, it’s pretty hard to stop eating them.  They are a bit on the fragile, delicate side but they sure do melt in your mouth.

These crackers are light, crispy and gave off a buttery presence without any actual butter whatsoever.   Thank you macadamia nuts!  Walnuts can also give a cracker a butter flavor so feel free to test that out if you don’t have macadamia nuts on hand.  The flavor won’t be as delicate but they will still taste wonderful.

Instead of using my typical sea salt in this recipe, I decided to use celery salt. The cool, grassy flavor of celery seed enhances the crackers and gives a more distinct taste.   The combination of salt and celery seed can enhance bland foods in need of not only salt but a subtle, tangy flavor.

Celery salt is made by combining two parts salt with one part celery seed.  You can purchase this or make your own.   Often, commercially made celery salt contains an anti-caking agent such as silicon dioxide or calcium silicate.  So, skip that and make your own.  It is so easy!

Start by grinding the celery seed with a spice grinder, mortar, and pestle or coffee grinder.  Then combine with the salt and mix well.  Store your finished celery salt in a jar, and use as needed.

It’s not very often that I make raw cracker bases with freshly soaked nuts, I normally soak and dehydrate them first so I can get a finer flour texture.  This time I left them wet so that I could create a more paste-like dough, giving the cracker a nice tight structure.  Mission accomplished.

Ingredients:


2 cups raw macadamia nuts, soaked 2+ hours

1/2 cup cashews,  soaked 2+ hours

1/4 tsp celery salt

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup ground flaxseed

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

1 cup water

finishing sea salt


 Preparation:



After soaking the macadamia nuts and cashews, drain and rinse them prior to adding them to the recipe.  Place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.

Add the celery salt, salt, flax, and vinegar.  Process until it resembles a small crumble.

Add the water and process, aiming for a paste-like texture.  It will look like cottage cheese in a strange way.

Split the dough into two equal portions.

Place each portion on the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  If you don’t have these, you can use parchment paper.




With an off-set spatula, spread the dough out to about 1/4″ thick.  Square off the edges.

Score into desired cracker shapes and sizes.   For fun, I used a meat tenderizer to create small holes all over the crackers.

Sprinkle a finishing salt, usually a coarse-like salt on top.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 6-8 hours then flip them and continue drying for another 4-6 hours or until dry.

To flip the crackers, place a mesh sheet on top of the crackers, followed by the dehydrator tray.  Now the crackers are sandwiched in between two frames, flip them over.  Now remove the tray, mesh sheet and peel off the reflex sheet.




Once cooled, store in an airtight container for roughly 5-7 days.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



