Red Beet Hummus
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/red-beet-hummus/



	Red Beet Hummus

													    
    


				

If you are not a red beet lover, may I ask that you stick around just long enough for me to share something with you?  They say that beets are one of those vegetables that people either love or hate, it seems there’s no in-between when it comes to the earthy red vegetable… until today!

My husband HATES beets…

BUT he loved this hummus! I almost held back my taste testing spoon from him, knowing that he would wrinkle his nose and purse those lips shut if I dared muttered the word beet.  But, I will never give up on him.

I loaded the spoon, approached him with a sweet innocent grin (keyword, innocent, not mischievous) on my face, keeping my eyes downward as he leaned in to clean the spoon with his lips. Feeding someone beets when they despise them is like looking a tiger in the eye when he hasn’t eaten for 30 days. Basically, it’s not recommended. lol

As he allowed the flavors to expand within his mouth, I quietly stepped back a few paces… if the tiger was going to emerge, I didn’t want to be too close to experience its wrath.

Eyes lowered to the floor, I stood there with my hands folded together in front of me.  My fingers danced as I nervously attempted to lace them together and my big toe drew circles around a fallen raisin (from a few days ago?!) that was laying on the wooden floor.  A bead of sweat popped out above my left brow. I waited patiently.  Never rush a tiger.

He asked for a cracker and another taste test. My knees buckled in shock but quickly regained my composure.  With no crackers in sight, I quickly grabbed some taro chips for him to dip into the hummus.  You can’t afford to delay in moments like this. Seize the moment!  As I handed him a loaded taro chip, my hands shook, my heart raced…. could it be? Could my husband actually like my beet hummus?!  I had to remain calm or else my excitement might have reminded him just how much he thought he hated beets.  You see, I am not new to this game. lol

Personally, I didn’t need a cracker, a taro chip, or sliced raw veggies for dipping… I just needed my spoon and I was good!  Later that night, Bob asked for a snack.  He loves it when I prepare his snacks because somehow I make them so much better and prettier… so he says.  I asked if he wanted salty or sweet. He asked for salty… he said that he wanted more taro chips and THAT DIP.  He munched away, gobbling up the beet hummus, much to his own amazement.  Five stars, highly recommended. :)

I typically don’t eat beets raw unless juiced, but you are welcome to explore this recipe with raw beets and even sprouted chickpeas.  I found out that I don’t care for the taste of sprouted chickpeas (too earthy and bitter for me) so I used cooked ones. Please do what you feel is best for you.  Enjoy and please comment below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 2 cups


4 medium red beets, cooked

1 (15 oz) canned or freshly cooked chickpeas

2 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

2 Tbsp balsamic vinegar

2 Tbsp almond butter

1 large garlic clove

1/2 tsp smoked paprika

1/2 tsp sriracha sauce or hot sauce

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp black pepper


Preparation:


Dice the beetroots into 1/2 inch cubes and place in a double boiler and steam until tender. Don’t forget to put the lid on. :)

Once done steaming, peel, cool, dice, and place them in the blender.

Add the drained chickpeas, vinegar, almond butter, garlic, paprika, sriracha, salt, and black pepper. Blend until creamy.

You can do this in the food processor, which I first tried, but I prefer the creaminess that is achieved through the blender.

Optional; garnish with minced cilantro and sprinkle white sesame seeds on top.

Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-5 days.






Good enough to eat with a spoon!


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



