Zesty Lime Corn Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/zesty-lime-corn-salad/



	Zesty Lime Corn Salad

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Sometimes I just crave corn.  I love the fresh, sweet, pop that it has when you bite down.  As the summer temperatures rise I aim for dishes that are refreshing and light.  This recipe fits that bill to a “T.”

If you make this dish, please, please use only organic corn.  If you can’t get any fresh, organic corn in your supermarket or farmers market,  it is just fine to use frozen organic corn.  Just allow the corn to thaw before making the dish.

Whenever I have corn, I am flooded with a memory that takes me back to my childhood days.  My Uncle Billy, whom I worshiped and adored growing up, used to meet up with a buddy of his in a cornfield.

My uncle would put me on his shoulders, and we would weave our way through the crazy maze of corn.  They would both whistle to act as beacons to find each other.  Back then I always “thought” I was the scout while perched on his shoulders,  straining my eyes to see through the corn stalks.

In reality, the corn stalks were still just as tall as we were and I couldn’t see a darn thing…but none the less, I still felt important. :)

Make sure to use fresh ingredients so that all the wonderful fresh flavors shine through. If you are making this dish ahead of time, I would hold off on adding the avocado until you are ready to serve it.  This will keep the salad looking fresh.  You will also find a little puddle of “dressing” in the bottom of the bowl. Be sure to give the salad a good stir right before serving. I hope you enjoy this simple recipe. Blessings, amie sue


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Ingredients:

yields 6 cups


4 cups organic corn kernels

1 cup (1 medium) diced red pepper/capsicum

1 cup (1 large) finely diced vine-ripened tomato ( I use cherry tomatoes)

1 cup (1 large) avocado, diced

1/2 cup (1 small bunch) fresh chopped cilantro

1/4 cup diced Spring onion (include greens)

1 Tbsp (2-3 cloves) finely chopped fresh garlic

2 Tbsp fresh lime juice

1 Tbsp cold pressed extra virgin olive oil

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp cracked black pepper to taste


Preparation:


Soak the raw corn in some hot water for a few minutes and then drain.

Combine the corn and all of the remaining ingredients together, stir and enjoy!

This will keep for several days if stored chilled, in an airtight container.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



