Whipped Vanilla Coconut Cream Frosting (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/frosting/whipped-vanilla-coconut-cream-frosting/



	Whipped Vanilla Coconut Cream Frosting

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

As a little girl, I always found great pleasure in eating frosting right out of the container.  Betty Crocker Whipped Cream Cheese Frosting was my all-time favorite. But goodness,  now I look back and can only imagine how much sugar I ingested as a child.  I am so thankful that I can now create much healthier versions of my ole’ time favorite foods.

Why I use certain ingredients

Soaked cashews ~  soaking the cashews is key (!) and this step should never be skipped.  Soaking causes the cashews to swell, giving a bit more volume for the money and it softens them which is vital when creating a creamy texture.  

Coconut milk ~ whether you use fresh Young Thai Coconuts or canned full fat coconut milk, this ingredient helps give body, creaminess, and a hint of coconut undertone.  It is a healthy fat that also acts as an emulsifier, bringing the recipe together.  If you can’t find Young Thai coconuts you can use canned, but do your homework.  Aim for organic, BPA free, and free of other ingredients.

Maple syrup ~ I used maple syrup because it is more alkalizing for the body than most other liquid sweeteners. You can use raw agave, coconut syrup, or any other liquid sweetener that you like to use. Vanilla ~ The role of vanilla in sweet goods is like the role of salt on the savory side: it enhances all the other flavors in the recipe.   You can use vanilla bean (seeds only), powdered vanilla, or vanilla paste.

Salt ~  I use sea salt in just about all of my sweet desserts.  It elevates the sweet level. Coconut oil ~ It is a healthy fat but also gives the frosting the overall body.  Once chilled above 76 degrees it firms up, making this frosting perfect for decorating with. Irish Moss ~ It adds a wonderful full-bodied texture to the frosting.  It is a natural thickener. If you are opposed to using Irish moss, please check out my other White Cake Frosting recipe.  That might be better suited for you.



Enjoy over your favorite cupcakes, cookies, and sweet breads for a creamy, decadent treat!  Keep the frosted treats chilled, if not serving immediately.  One of the key steps in creating is frosting is to place it in the freezer after blending all the ingredients together. Check in on it periodically testing the consistency.  If you forget about it, and it gets too hard, just let it sit on the counter at room temp till it softens enough to spread.

Ingredients:

yields: 4 cups


2 cups raw cashews, soaked

2 cups coconut milk, raw or canned

1/2 cup raw agave syrup or maple syrup

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp sunflower lecithin, powdered

1 cup raw cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup Irish moss


Preparation:


Soak the cashews in 4 cups of water for at least 2 hours.

You can soak them up to 24 hours.  For that length of time, keep them in the fridge and change the water several times.

This will help reduce the phytic acid, making it easier to digest.

It also softens the cashews, so they blend smooth and creamy.  We don’t want a gritty frosting.

Once done soaking, drain and discard the soak water.




In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, coconut milk, sweetener, lemon juice, vanilla, and salt.  Blend until creamy.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Blend until the filling is creamy smooth.   You shouldn’t detect any grit.  If you do, keep blending.

This process can take 2-4 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm.  Stop the machine and let it cool.  Then proceed once cooled.




With a vortex going in the blender, drizzle in the coconut oil, and then add the lecithin.  Blend just long enough to incorporate everything together.  Don’t over-process.  The batter will start to thicken.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape the sides down.




Add the Irish moss and blend till incorporated.

Tip: If the frosting doesn’t taste rich and flavorful, add another small pinch of salt and blend a little longer.

Pour into airtight containers and place in the freezer until it starts to firm up.  Depending on how you are using this frosting, you can remove it from the freezer and use it at different stages.


Additional Cake Tips:


How to frost a cake.  Click here.

How to slice a cake.  Click here.

How much frosting is needed for a cake? Click here.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



