Stop Guacamole from Browning
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/stop-guacamole-from-browning/



	Stop Guacamole from Browning

													    
    


				How do you stop guacamole from browning?

Eat it right away!

We simply can’t expect fresh, whole foods to last forever on the shelf or even in the fridge.  That would require heavy processing… preservatives… and isn’t that what are trying to get away from?

Guacamole is simple to make, it’s one of those “Johny on the Spot” type dips… but there are many reasons you might want to keep guacamole beyond its usual hourlong window of freshness.

It happens to everyone at one point or another.  The guacamole goes into the fridge looking, vibrant, healthy, green and appetizing… the next day, not so much, it has turned to a disgusting brown sludge.  Why does this happen?

The answer is tied to an enzyme known as polyphenol oxidase. Which once exposed to air causes certain fruits (apples, avocados) to turn in color.

Also, were you aware that by adding salt to guacamole, it causes it to discolor even more so?  Don’t misunderstand; I am not suggesting to remove salt from your recipe… it’s required, needed, and wanted!  That was just a little tidbit of info that came into my possession.

So here we go…. This method is easy and cheap, and you can use it with any kind of guacamole. How do we stop this discoloration?  Minimizing its exposure to air works wonders.  But I am not talking about screwing on a lid or wrapping it with plastic wrap.  All you do is cover the guacamole with a…

A thin layer of water.

Eeeew, (I can hear you out there), you say, this sounds weird perhaps even gross. Put water on the guacamole?  Truth be told, water is a perfect barrier against oxygen, and since guacamole is dense (full of fat), a little liquid won’t water it down.  After creating your “oh-my-gosh-this-is-the-best-guac-ever!” recipe…


Transfer the guacamole it into a glass bowl or mason jar, (it needs a tight-fitting lid).

Pack the guacamole tightly in the bowl/jar, working out any air bubbles.

Slowly add in some lukewarm water, about 1/2″ worth.  Just make sure the surface is completely covered.

Put on the lid on the container and place in the fridge for up to 3 days.

When ready to eat, move the lid and gently pour out the water.

Stir the guacamole and serve.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



