Cinnamon Raisin Tiger Nut Ice Cream (nut-free, dairy-free, raw)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/ice-creams/cinnamon-raisin-tiger-nut-ice-cream-nut-free-dairy-free-raw/



	Cinnamon Raisin Tiger Nut Ice Cream

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, grain-free ~

I bet you are sitting there scratching your head, wondering just what the heck raisins tiger nuts are, aren’t ya? Some of you may have heard of or have even tried them already… if so, I would love to hear from you.  I received an email, asking for some advice on how to use tiger nuts in a crust.  This prompted me to do a bit of investigating which lead to me getting some in my hot little hands.

I am not going into great detail about them here because I already dedicated a post all to themselves. I highly recommend that you take a few minutes to read through it.  I will share this though…

Tiger Nuts are – NOT NUTS, they are Tubers!

They’re small vegetable tubers that grow in the ground just like carrots and potatoes. They are Gluten Free,  NUT FREE, Allergen Free, Dairy Free, High in Fiber, Low in Calories & Fats, High in Nutrition, Non-GMO, Raw, and Paleo Perfect. Do you find any of that exciting? :) It drew me in for sure! Click (here) to learn more.

Tiger Nut Reading Intermission…

So, what did you think after reading about tiger nuts? Pretty cool huh? If tiger nuts don’t excite you, you can use almond milk instead.  I was just thrilled to come up with another allergen-free milk source.

This ice cream tastes amazing right after you remove it from the ice cream machine, serving it soft-serve style.  Once frozen completely through, be sure to allow to rest on the counter for about 15 minutes prior to serving.  It is rich, creamy, full of pockets of raisin sweetness, all enveloped with the warming spice of cinnamon. If you are looking to purchase an ice cream machine, I highly recommend the 2 quart Cuisinart.  Enjoy and have a blessed day, amie sue

 Ingredients:

Yields 3 1/2 cup batter


2 cups raw tiger nut or raw almond milk

1 cup (160 g) young Thai coconut meat/flesh

1/2 cup (160 g) raw date paste

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 Tbsp raw honey/sweetener

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/3 cup raisins, rehydrated

1  Tbsp raw coconut crystals


 Preparation:


In a high-powered blender combine the tiger milk, coconut, date paste, cinnamon, honey, and salt.  Blend until creamy smooth.  Place the blender carafe in the fridge or freezer for 1 hour.

If chilled in the fridge it can stay there for up to 8 hours.  But don’t leave it in the freezer for more than an hour or it will freeze solid.




In the meantime, place the raisins in a bowl filled with enough water to cover them.  Soak while the ice cream batter in the fridge

Once chilled pour the batter into the ice cream maker and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.

Make sure that the ice cream machine bowl is completely frozen before using.  Tip: Wrap the ice cream maker bowl in a plastic bag and put it in the freezer until the cooling liquid is completely frozen – about 10-22 hours. The plastic bag will help protect the bowl from freezer burn.

Due to the long freezing period required for the freezer bowl, it is best to keep it stored in the freezer at all times. This ensures that the freezer bowl will be ready whenever you are.




Drain and hand squeeze the water from the raisins and sprinkle the tablespoon of raw coconut crystals over them.  Toss and slowly add to the ice cream machine as it is turning.  Once mixed, it is done.

If you like soft-serve consistency, you can enjoy your ice cream immediately. If you desire a more firm texture, transfer the ice cream to a freezer-safe container and freeze for 2-4 more hours.

It is best to take the ice cream out of the freezer for about 10 minutes ahead of time, so it can have a chance to soften.

Eat within 1 month.  Remember to always store ice cream in freezer-safe, airtight containers to prevent freezer burn.





Freezing Suggestions for Ice Cream:



Use an ice cream machine.  Follow the manufactures directions.



Freeze in popsicle molds or 3 oz Dixie cups with a popsicle stick inserted.



Here some of my other favorite molds and containers for frozen treats: Onyx Stainless Steel Popsicle Molds (6),  Silicone molds (8), Mini Silicone Molds (8), Spiral Silicone Molds, 4 oz mason jars, and single-serving ice cream containers.



Store the ice cream in the very back of the freezer, as far away from the door as possible. Every time you open your freezer door you let in warm air. Keeping ice cream way in the back and storing it beneath other frozen-sold items will help protect it from those steamy incursions.



Ice cream is full of fat, and even when frozen, fat has a way of soaking up flavors from the air around it—including those in your freezer. To keep your ice cream from taking on the odors, use a container with a tight-fitting lid. For extra security, place a layer of plastic wrap between your ice cream and the lid.



To soften in the refrigerator, transfer ice cream from the freezer to the refrigerator 20-30 minutes before using. Or let it stand at room temperature for 10-15 minutes.



Wish to make your own raw ice cream, wonder what machine I might recommend, and more? Click (here) to check out the Reference Library!






The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




Raw Coconut Crystals add a “brown sugar” flavor to a recipe.  Read about it (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

I use specific ingredients when creating ice cream at home, to learn more, click (here).








© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



