Sweet and Spicy Onion Rings (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/savory-treats/nut-less-spicy-onion-rings/



	Sweet and Spicy Onion Rings

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

The first onion ring recipe that I created was the “Spicy Onion Rings”. They were a huge hit but I ran into a tiny snag for those who are allergic to nuts. So for those of you out there that are either allergic to nuts or just want to cut back on the use of them… I created this recipe for you!

An important tip when making these onion rings is to have your dredging stations all set up and ready to go.  I used the same concept as though I were going to make the cooked version of onion rings… Not that I ever made those. haha

Dredging Station #1

Station one consists of just one ingredient, and that is a fine “flour.” This step is needed because it “dries” the onion so that it will hold onto the remaining ingredients. If you don’t have mesquite flour, you could use coconut flour, garlic or onion powder, or any other type of really fine powder that you might have in your pantry.  The main thing to keep an eye out for is that it is a very fine powder.

Dredging Station #2

The second station is liquid.  I choose one that was really sticky so the ingredients would adhere to the onion ring really well.  I have used almond milk and coconut milk in the past but using a sweetener seems to add a great flavor. You could any of those items and end up with a successful onion ring.

Dredging Station #3

The third station is the real coating. It is loaded with flavor.  The ground flax is important because it starts to thicken up which helps the batter stick to the onion.  Once the spices are combined with the flax, dip a wet finger in it and taste test it.  Maybe you like it spicier and wish to add more cumin or chili powder.

I have been making this recipe for 6 years and I have come to learn that I like to double dip the onion rings to give them a thicker coating.  I also discovered that I  enjoy using smaller onions over large ones.  This produces a more manageable onion ring and also a thicker one.  To create even slices, use a mandolin.  Cut the bottom of the onion flat (not the root end), peel the outer paper layer off and slice to a 1/4″ thick.

Please read through this recipe before you start.  I tried to type out all the steps and ingredients in a format that would be easy, so please don’t let the length of this entry scare you. :)  I promise it is very easy! I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please comment below and have a blessed day, amie sue

Ingredients:

Combined ingredients needed for recipe:

(I will break them up below for the dredging station)


1/2 cup mesquite flour

1/4 cup maple syrup

1 cup ground golden flax-seed

2 Tbsp chili powder

1 tsp ground cumin

1/2 tsp cayenne pepper

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 large onions, sliced 1/4″ thick


Preparation:

Dredging Station #1:


1/2 cup of mesquite flour

Place flour in a bowl that is large enough for you to dip your onion ring into and get a good coating.

Not much of the flour will stick to the onion itself but it will help give the onion a nice dry surface for the other ingredients to adhere to.

Tap any of the excess flour off before moving to the next step.




If you don’t have mesquite flour, you could use coconut flour, garlic or onion powder or any other type of really fine powder that you might have in your pantry.  The main thing to keep an eye out for is that it is a very fine powder.



1/4 cup maple syrup ( you may need more, add it as needed )

Place maple syrup in a bowl that is large enough for you to dip your onion ring into and get a good coating.


Dredging Station #2:


1/2 cup of sweetener

After dipping your onion ring in the flour, dip it into the sweetener.

Use a chopstick to remove it and transfer it to the next dredging station.  I have tested using forks and my fingers but they tend to get a build-up of ingredients on them.


Dredging Station #3:


In a bowl, combine the ground flax, chili powder, cumin, cayenne pepper, and salt.

Using your magic bullet or coffee grinder, grind your flax seeds into a powder. Place in a bowl.  Now mix in the remaining ingredients, making sure that the spices get mixed in really well.

After dipping the onion ring into the sweetener, place it into the flax mixture and coat it really well.

I used a chopstick to lift the onion ring up and out of the batter, tapping it gently on the side of the bowl to release any extra batter.

I started off with a fork and even just tried my fingers but the batter seemed to stick more to me or the fork than it did to the onion so the chopstick worked beautifully.




Place the coated onion ring on the teflex sheet on your dehydrator tray.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 16 hours or until dry. They won’t be crispy solid, onion rings aren’t.

Storage: Place the onion rings, gently, in a container that will seal well.  To be honest I am not sure how long they will last…they seem to be disappearing quickly here!


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



