Raw Ginger Crystals
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/condiments/raw-ginger-crystalsginger-crystals/



	Ginger Crystals

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I tend to use a lot of ginger in my recipes.  In powdered or dried chunk form.  In the stores, I have noticed that they sell Crystallized Ginger pieces and figured that they would be easy to make.

I learned a neat little trick but have yet to try it… homegrown ginger. Take a fresh ginger root that you purchased at the grocery store and break off about 2″ of the root.  Place it in a pot filled with sandy soil.  Water occasionally to keep it slightly moistened.

Whenever you need ginger root, just dig up the root and break off a small portion!  The root will continue to grow!  I can’t wait to give this a try.  If you have done this yourself, I would love to hear from you.

Ginger gets its flavor from its gingerols, and these gingerols vary in taste… all depending on where and how the plant was grown, as well as when it was harvested.

So keep in mind that fresh ginger can have a large range of flavors; from tangy, sweet, spicy, and with temperatures that range from mild to hot.  So with that in mind, each batch that you make can taste different.  Ah, the “spice” of life. :)

I used raw coconut crystals when I made this batch.  I wanted to use a dry sweetener because I wanted the ginger to be hard and crystal-like.  Mission accomplished.  Crystalized ginger would be great sprinkled on raw brownies, roll truffles in it, sprinkle on salads, and whatever sticks your fancy.

Ingredients:


30-50g fresh ginger root

100g raw coconut crystals


Preparation:


Peel the ginger.

Finely grate the fresh ginger root with a micro-planer or chop with a knife.  Place in a bowl.

Mix with the coconut crystals.

Spread the ginger mixture out on the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 10+ hours, or until dry.

Once dry break up into pieces and store in an airtight container


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



