Sweet Grain Muesli
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/breakfast/sweet-grain-muesli/



	Sweet Grain Muesli

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I am taking breakfast back to the basics. This muesli is a delicious blend of whole rolled oats, buckwheat, dried fruit, and seeds.  You can eat it cold with nut milk or raw yogurt, eat it warmed like oatmeal, or soak it overnight to unleash even more of the flavors.

You can also dress it up by adding fresh berries, diced fruit, or a dollop of nut or seed butter.  My favorite way is soaked overnight with almond milk, along with some freshly sliced bananas.

I choose to use yacon syrup as my sweetener in the muesli.  If you are not familiar with it, I hope that you will consider trying this delicious flavor enhancer.  It is a little on the spendy side, but I believe it is well worth it.  Yacon syrup is also known as yacon root extract, which is a sweetening agent extracted from the roots of the yacon plant.

If you are looking for a molasses replacement, this is a good substitute. It is close to the same viscosity and pretty darn close flavor-wise.   It contains half of the calories of sugar, promotes healthy bacteria in the digestive system, is loaded with minerals including potassium, and is low glycemic so that it won’t spike your blood sugar.

A win for the tummy!

Yacon Syrup is high in prebiotics, such as inulin and fructooligosaccharides (FOS). The concentration of FOS, which are sugars found naturally in many plants, is particularly high in this sweetener. FOS resist breakdown by enzymes in the human digestive system and reach the colon without being digested. Therefore it is very low in calories (about 20 calories per tablespoon). FOS also acts as a soluble fiber, which increases stool bulk to help prevent and control constipation.

Well, my friend, it is time to dirty up some dishes. If I were there with you, I would help wash them, but since I can’t… do know that I am with you in spirit. :) Please keep me posted below in the comment section if you give this recipe a try.

Ingredients:

Yields roughly 4 1/4  cups dried



Dry Ingredients:


4 cups raw, gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

1 cup buckwheat, soaked & sprouted

1 cup raw pumpkin seeds, soaked

1 cup raw hemp seeds

1 cup raisins

1 cup shredded coconut

2 Tbsp ground chia seeds


Wet Ingredients:


1/4 cup raw Yucan syrup or coconut nectar

1 1/4 cup raw apple sauce

2 Tbsp raw coconut oil, melted

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp cardamom

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp Allspice seasoning

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp liquid NuNaturals stevia


Preparation:


After soaking the oats, drain and rinse under cold water for 2 minutes.

Use your fingers to agitate the oats under the water.

Hand squeeze the excess water from them and place it in a large bowl.




Drain and rinse the pumpkin seeds, adding them to the bowl with the oats.

Add buckwheat, hemp seeds, raisins, coconut, and chia seeds.

If you don’t want to sprout the buckwheat fully, soak for 30 minutes. Drain and rinse for two minutes under cold water.




In a separate bowl, stir together the wet ingredients.  Pour over the oat mixture and mix until everything is evenly coated.

Spread the mixture onto the non-stick teflex sheets that come with your dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) and dehydrate for 10 hours or until it reaches the desired dryness.

Dry time will always vary depending on the climate, humidity, and how thick or thin you spread the granola batter.




Once cooled, place the dried batter in the food processor and pulse it just enough times to break it down to a small-medium crumble.

Store in an airtight container on the counter for 1-2 weeks, in the fridge for 2-3 weeks, and even longer in the freezer.

Serve with milk, yogurt, or juice.  You can eat it right away or do like the and let it soak in either of these, overnight.  Come morning; you have a beautiful porridge-like texture with a slight crunch.  Hands down, these are my favorite way to enjoy it!



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



Click (here) to learn why I use stevia.

To learn more about Yacon syrup by clicking (here).

Hemp seeds don’t require soaking. Click (here) to learn more.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



