Sun-Dried Tomato Enchilada Sauce (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/mexican-cuisine/sun-dried-tomato-enchilada-sauce-raw-vegan-gluten-free/



	Sun-Dried Tomato Enchilada Sauce

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Can you guess what the secrete ingredient is in this enchilada sauce?  (muffled mouth) Raw cacao powder!  Sorry, I was too excited and didn’t give you a chance to say it.  I apologize. :) Chocolate is the flavor enhancer in this delicious Mexican sauce.  In Mexico they don’t use milk chocolate, they use the dark stuff which makes raw cacao powder the perfect shoo-in.

Most enchilada sauces are cooked, and that cooking process develops a deep, rich flavor when using fresh tomatoes.  Since we are not cooking here, sun-dried tomatoes are used for their concentrated flavor.

Once the tomato base was established, and the culinary secret weapon was added… it was just a matter of shaking in some of the traditional Mexican flavorings; chili powder, oregano, salt, and cumin.  The oil gives the sauce a creamy mouth-feel and to also acts as an emulsifier, bringing all the wonderful festive flavors together.

So go ahead and make this sauce. Feel free to drench your burrito or drizzle it over the top it also makes a great dipping sauce if you are going for the no-forks-allowed approach.  (my style)

I hope you enjoy this recipe.  Once you go fresh, you never go back.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 1/2 cups


1/2 cup sun-dried tomatoes, rehydrated

1/2 cup soak water (from above)

1 1/2 Tbsp Mexican chili powder blend

1 1/2 tsp raw cacao powder

1 tsp garlic powder

1 tsp dried oregano

1 Tbsp cold-pressed olive oil (used as an emulsifier)

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/8-1/4 tsp ground cumin


Preparation:


Rehydrate the sun-dried tomatoes by placing them in a bowl with enough warm water to cover.

I used plain sun-dried tomatoes. Don’t use ones that have been packed in oil, as the rehydrating water is part of the ingredients.

The rehydrating process softens them, so they will blend into a creamy sauce.

Once done soaking (about 15 minutes), drain and reserve the soak water for the sauce making process.




In a high-powered blender start with 1/2 cup of the soak water, sun-dried tomatoes, chili powder, cacao, garlic, oregano, oil, cumin, and salt.  Blend until completely smooth and creamy.

Add more water if you want it thinner.

Do not skip the oil; it works as an emulsifier in the recipe.

If you don’t already have a Mexican spice blend on hand, you can make your own. Combine the following ingredients in a jar and shake really good: 4 Tbsp ground cumin, 3 Tbsp mild paprika, 1/4 tsp ground cayenne pepper, 1/4 tsp red chili pepper flakes, 1 Tbsp dried oregano, 2 tsp garlic powder, 2 tsp sea salt.




Store in an airtight jar or squeeze container in the fridge for 5-7 days.

Squeeze bottles are wonderful to use for decorating the top of a burrito or the serving plate.

As it sits in the fridge you might see a little liquid separating on top… just stir that back in before using.





 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



