Shredded Rainbow Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/salads/shredded-rainbow-salad/



	Shredded Rainbow Salad

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Today, I wanted to share with you my amazing, incredible, powerhouse salad.  For the healthiest salad foundation,  I started with a dense dark leafy green… kale! From there, I tried to add in every color of the rainbow because, in the end, I knew I would find a pot of gold.  :)

My goal was to put as many vitamins, minerals, nutrients and enzymes into this salad as I possibly could.  It is important that you use organic produce, which is free of toxic chemical fertilizers and pesticides.

One last tip that I want to pass on before I let you go is to chop everything up into tiny pieces. Chopping makes salads easier to eat especially those of us who find eating them a challenge.

Rather than trying to fold a huge green leaf into your mouth or spend half of your time chasing cherry tomatoes across the plate, with a well-chopped salad you can scoop up layer after colorful layer of veggies in one bite fearlessly and of course with a certain degree of elegance.

I am also sharing with you a technique that helps with softening the greens so they can not only be better enjoyed but also easier to digest.  And that technique is massaging the kale and chard with lemon juice, olive oil, and salt.  This process gently breaks down the cell walls making it easier to chew.

This salad can be enjoyed dressed in any salad dressing that suits your taste buds.  It is quick easy and full of nutrition. I do hope that you enjoy this salad. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 14 cups

Salad massage:


1 large had rainbow chard

1 large head, purple curly kale

2 cups baby Brussels sprouts, shredded

2 Tbsp lemon juice

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Add-ins:


2 cups shredded carrot

2 cups shredded purple cabbage

1/2 cup green onions

1 cup diced  yellow pepper

1/2 cup diced celery

1/2 cup sunflower seeds, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup cherry tomatoes (halved)

1 Tbsp fresh minced oregano


Preparation:


Wash, dry and remove the stems from the chard and kale.  Chiffonade into small pieces.  Place in a large bowl.

Alternatively, you can roll the leaves and feed them through the shredder blade that comes with your food processor.

In the food processor shred the Brussels sprouts.  Add to the bowl with the greens and sprinkle the lemon juice and salt.  Gently massage the salad with your hands till the green start to soften.

Add the shredded carrots, cabbage, onion, yellow pepper, celery, sunflower seeds, tomatoes, and oregano.  Mix well with your hands.

Coat with your favorite dressing and enjoy!

Store in the fridge for 3-5 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



