(FREE) Strawberry Lemonade Chia Seed Drink
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/strawberry-lemonade-chia-seed-drink/


  
  	Strawberry Lemonade Chia Seed Drink

    
    
    
  				  					  				      
      

  				

Strawberry Lemonade Chia Seed Drink

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, Paleo ~

Blending organic strawberries, freshly squeezed lemon juice, and raw chia seeds together, turned out to be a powerhouse of summertime freshness!

Chew Your Drinks


The chia seeds add a natural thickness and texture to this drink. Remember to always “chew” your drinks because this starts the digestion process.   Chia seeds also add a dose of omega-3 fatty acids, dietary fiber, and are a high-quality complete protein without gluten, and a low-glycemic carbohydrate.   They are also rich in antioxidants, calcium, omega-6 oil, phosphorous, magnesium, iron, and zinc.

To put it in perspective… one tablespoon of chia seeds has more calcium than a glass of milk, more Omega-3s than salmon, and more antioxidants than blueberries!

Another aspect that I enjoy about this drink is the visual of the suspended chia seeds.  I used to get a kick out of the looks I would get as I walked around carrying my mason jar filled with a fluorescent green, alien infused nutrient-packed smoothies.  Now those drinks have met their match.  It may not be green but it does have that weird factor of floating orbs to it. lol   Though to be honest, in this day and age, it is hard to shock anyone anymore.  Weird is the new normal and nobody really blinks an eye at oddities.


This drink is great for preventing dehydration during exercise or exposure to heat. Chia seed have hydrophilic properties and can absorb more than 9 times their weight in water. Because of this, chia seeds can prolong hydration, helping retain moisture and regulate more efficiently the body’s absorption of nutrients and body fluids, including the electrolyte balance.


I created this drink for my dear friends Suzy and Harry.  They needed a drink that was alkalizing, full of nutrients, energy-giving and delicious… and I created just that.  It is cool and refreshing.  But best of all you can pre-make this drink and store it in the fridge for a few days… enjoying it as needed.

Mason jars are perfect for these types of drinks because you really need to shake them prior to and in between sips.  I hope you enjoy this energy-packed drink. Use it as a great way to start your day or as a pick-me-up when the mid-day slumps hit. Please be sure to leave a comment below. I love hearing from you. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups





3 cups water

1/4 cup organic fresh lemon juice

1/4 cup chia seeds

1 cup organic strawberries

1 tsp liquid stevia


Preparation:




In the blender combine the water, lemon juice, chia seeds, strawberries, and stevia.  Blend until the strawberries are liquified.

I wanted to make this drink sugar-free, so I used my favorite liquid stevia. If you are not a fan of that, you can add any liquid sweetener of your liking.

Be sure to use freshly squeezed lemon juice; it makes all the difference in flavor.




Place in the fridge to thick for 30+ minutes.  The longer it sits, the more suspended the chia seeds get after shaking.

Give it another shake or stir when ready to drink and enjoy.














© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 
  

        	
   	

  	
  	
  	

  
	


	









	
    





    































































