Raw Cashew Cream Cheese Recipe
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/condiments/raw-cashew-cream-cheese/



	Cashew Cream Cheese

													    
    


				
Cashew Cream Cheese


I find cream cheese to be an interesting food…  it can taste subtly smooth and richly complex at the same time. When I think back to when I used to eat traditional dairy-based cream cheese, I  find it difficult to put my finger on what it tasted like.  Was I detecting a hint of sweetness or a slight savoriness… or both?

This recipe is a super delicious cashew-based, dairy-free cream cheese.  And you don’t have to be vegan or lactose intolerant to enjoy it!    There are, however, a few simple techniques that you need to exercise.  For starters, you can make a quick-eat-right-away version, or you can take a few days and ferment it with the addition of probiotics.  This is the quick version.

To obtain a cream cheese-like texture, the cashews need to be soaked, which causes them to swell up and soften. This process reduces the phytic acid (making it easier to digest) and allows for that silky, smooth mouthfeel.

It is good to know that when blending them, you want to use as little water as possible, but you will need enough to keep the blades moving. I recommend adding 1/4 cup in the beginning and 1 Tbsp at a time until the blades move freely. To get that velvety smooth texture, you really need a high-powered blender like a Vitamix or Blendtec. You can still make it without such a blender; it just won’t be as smooth.

The great thing about creating this cream cheese is that you can incorporate this simple base into other recipes by adding herbs and/or spices. Or, you can use this thick cream cheese as a base for more assertive applications, such as a savory torte with relish, pesto, or tapenade.  I will share some recipe ideas with you below.

The lemon juice used in the recipe helps create that “tangy” taste of cream cheese.  And as I mentioned above, fermenting/culturing it will give it that flavor as well as increase the nutrients, but that is for another post.  The nutritional yeast adds a slight hint of cheesiness; it can be omitted if you can’t eat this ingredient.  I should also mention that if you wish to break this recipe up and use it to create several flavor profiles, I would mix it all together but without the onion granules.  Then, you can use it in sweet-tasting recipes as well.

Nutritional Data

Whole recipe — Calories 1,695 / Fat 127 g / Carb 83.4 g / Fiber 40.2 g / Protein 62.7 g

Per Tablespoon — Calories 35.3  / Fat 2.6 g / Carb 1.7 g / Fiber 0.8 g / Protein 1.3 g

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups or 48 (1 Tbsp) servings


2 1/4 cups raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2 1/2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1 tsp onion granules


Preparation:


Place 5 cups of water in a large bowl and add the cashews.  Soak for at least 2 hours.

After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soak water.  Place the cashews in a high-powered blender.

Add the lemon juice, nutritional yeast, and onion granules.  If using the cashew cream for something sweet, omit the nutritional yeast and onion granules.

Blend on high until the cream cheese is smooth and creamy.  Depending on the blender, this can take anywhere from 1-3 minutes.

Store in an airtight container in the fridge for 3-5 days.

Serve with bread or crackers, or use as you would any other flavorful cream cheese.



 

 



 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



