Mexican Style Seasoned "Rice" Dish - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/mexican-style-seasoned/



	Mexican Style Seasoned “Rice” Dish

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, grain-free, nut-free ~

This dish is bright in Mexican flavors, fresh with garden veggies, and downright good home, comfort food. It was created to mimic Mexican seasoned rice, and the mission was happily accomplished.

This “rice” dish is good enough to fool anyone.  Nobody would guess that the normal rice typically used in such a dish as this, has been replaced with cabbage.   I have made this recipe many times over, and we just love it.

I shared this dish with many of my friends and family who are not raw food eaters and think that I am part alien for eating this way. Apparently, they are part alien too, because when I serve this dish to them, they are clueless that they are eating a dish that is 100% raw.

Whenever I make it, I have to double and even time triple the recipe because it gets gobbled up.  I hope you enjoy it as much as we have. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 3 cups


2 cups (208 g) shredded cabbage

1/2 cup (81 g) fresh or frozen peas

1 green onion, thinly sliced

2 Tbsp Sun-Dried Tomato Powder 

1 Tbsp extra virgin olive oil

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp Mexican chili powder

1/4 tsp ground cumin

1/4 tsp onion powder

1/2 clove garlic, crushed

1/3 cup (56 g) diced ripe tomato


Preparation:


Place the cabbage in a food processor fitted with the S blade and pulse until it reaches the texture of rice.

Transfer to a large bowl and add all of the remaining ingredients.

Frozen peas are not raw – they’ve been blanched for a few minutes. They still contain valuable nutrients as well as good flavor and color, but if you want a 100% raw recipe and no fresh peas, they may be omitted.




Serve immediately.

If you would like to warm the mixture, transfer it to a large glass baking dish and place it in the dehydrator set at no more than 115 degrees (F) for about 2 hours or in a warmed oven (preheated to warm and turned off) for 30-minute prior serving.

This dish is also tasty without being warmed. Try serving it wrapped in a large collard leaf or large leaf of romaine lettuce.

Store in the fridge for 3-5 days.


 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



