Seafood Salad Spread (raw, vegan, gluten-free) photos
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/seafood-salad-spread/



	Seafood Salad Spread

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Seafood Salad Spread…whereas someone may look at this recipe and question the fact that there really isn’t any seafood (tuna, shrimp, fish, etc.Kelps)….I would have to beg to differ, kelp!  Kelp is a sea”food” and so darn good for you!

What is kelp?

Kelp is a type of brown-colored seaweed that grows along the ocean shores that can be eaten raw, but it is usually dried and ground into a powder.

Health Benefits of Kelp:

Kelp is high in iodine, potassium, calcium, and other minerals as well as vitamins, especially the B vitamins. The B vitamins among its many functions are well renowned for their ability to combat stress and increase energy levels. Kelp is also known to:


correct mineral deficiencies.

A good protective food, valuable in overcoming poor digestion, preventing and overcoming goiter (because it is the richest source of iodine), and rebuilding and maintaining the proper function of all glands.

Reported to aid in brain development.

Offsets deficiencies of an inferior diet.

Kelp helps prevent osteoporosis.

Beneficial for those suffering from impotence, anemia, and emaciation.

Helps to detoxify the body.

Helps to increase metabolism.

May help in controlling obesity because it dissolves fatty wastes through the skin.

Seaweed bath helps maintain hormone balance for a more youthful body.


We have a house guest staying with us for about 2 weeks.  House guest, goodness that sounds cold.  A dear friend of ours is more like it.  And bless his heart because in the 2 days that he has been here already, he has eaten and taste tested many raw creations!  The good news is that he loves every one of them so far.  Today, I made this Seafood Salad Spread and made an open-faced sandwich for the boys to split.  They both really loved it.  They found it very filling and satisfying.

Ingredients:

yields 2 cups


1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked 

1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked

1/2 cup tomato, diced

1/3 cup chopped carrot, (1 medium)

1 Tbsp lemon juice

1 Tbsp Braggs Amino Liquid (Tamari or Nama Shoya)

1 Tbsp nutritional yeast

2 tsp kelp powder

1 tsp coconut oil

1 Tbsp chopped white onion

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:




Place all of the ingredients listed above in the food processor.  Blend until it makes a nice “spread” consistency.

Store in an airtight container in the fridge for approx. 3-5 days.

This spread would be fantastic served on raw breads; spread on raw crackers, used as a veggie dip, rolled up in a wrap and great in making raw Nori rolls!

As with most raw foods that are blended, the flavors tend to intensify as they sit.  So keep this in mind as you taste test.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



