Sunflower Seeds, Soaking and Drying
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-techniques/soaking-nuts-seeds-and-grains/sunflower-seeds-soaking-and-drying/



	Sunflower Seeds | Soaking and Drying

													    
    


				
Sunflower Seeds, Soaking and Drying
There are days when I feel like pulling my hair out.  Then there are days when my hair just falls out… at alarming rates. This is a straight-away concern, no woman or man wants to lose their locks!
 

Hair loss may be due to many reasons; lifestyle factors, iron deficiency, a side effect of prescription medication, severe stress, treatment, and styling effects or if you pull or twist your hair too much.  Doh! I am a hair twister!

 

Hair loss and Sunflower Seeds?


Sunflower seeds contain a nutrient called silica, which is important to the strength of your hair. By strengthening hair and its roots, silica can prevent hair breakage. (1)  They also contain plenty of other hair loss preventing nutrients such as; protein, zinc, selenium, biotin, potassium, copper, iron, B vitamins, vitamin E, magnesium, and calcium.
 

I am not saying that sunflower is the cure-all for hair loss, but it is one step in the right direction.  Have you ever heard that term, “It takes a village to raise a child?”… well, it takes a village of nutrient-packed foods to heal the body!

 

Sunflower Fun Facts


I thought this bit of info was just fascinating and must be shared.  The flowers within a sunflower head are clustered in a spiral pattern whereby each floret is oriented towards the next by the golden angle of 137.5°. This produces a pattern of interconnecting spirals. The number of left and right spirals is consecutive Fibonacci numbers. Normally there are 34 spirals in one direction and 55 in the other. Very large sunflowers can have 89 in one direction and 144 in the other.  Pretty cool huh? If you wish to more on how sunflower plants grow and are harvested, please click (here).



Why must we go through all this trouble? I find soaking sunflower seeds and nuts a very important step when it comes to my digestion. When nuts/seeds are soaked and/or sprouted in water, the germination process begins, in which the active and readily available amounts of enzymes, vitamins, minerals, proteins, and essential fatty acids begin to be activated. 

Nuts and seeds contain phytic acid and enzymes inhibitors which make it quite hard on the stomach and digestion. This simple process can make all the difference in how you feel after consuming them and how your body assimilates them. To read more about the importance of why our bodies benefit from soaking nuts and seeds, click (here).  Using sea salt in your soak water helps de-activate the enzyme inhibitors and makes your nuts and seeds extra tasty.





Ingredients:


4 cups raw sunflower seeds, shelled

1 Tbsp Himalayan pink salt

8 cups water


Preparation:

Soaking:


Place the sunflower seeds and salt in a large glass or stainless steel bowl along with 8 cups of water.

Leave them on the counter to soak for 2 hours.

Loosely cover with a clean cloth, this allows the contents of the bowl to breathe.




After they are done soaking, drain and rinse them in a colander.





Dehydrator method:


Spread the sunflower seeds on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  Place another mesh sheet on top to prevent them from blowing around during the drying process.

Keep them in a single layer as much as possible and dry them at 115 degrees (F) until they are thoroughly dry and crisp.  Make sure they are completely dry.  If not, they could mold, plus they won’t have that crunchy, yummy texture you expect from nuts and seeds.

The dry time will vary due to the machine you own, the type of climate you live in, and how full your dehydrator is when drying them.

Expect anywhere from 4 + hours.




Allow them to cool to room temperature before storing.

Store in airtight containers such as mason jars.

Use within 1-3 months – store in the fridge

Use within 3-12 months – store in the freezer.






 

Oven method: (no longer raw)




Preheat the oven to 300 degrees (F).

Spread the sunflower seeds on an ungreased cookie sheet in a single layer.

Bake for 30-40 minutes.

Don’t leave them unattended, due to their high oil content; they will continue to roast after you remove them from the oven.

Good idea to stir them around a bit throughout the process.




Cool for about 1 hour.   Make sure that they are cool before storing them.

Note ~  You can also attempt to dry the sunflower seeds in the oven and keep them raw, but this is tricky.  You will need to set the oven on the lowest setting, keep the door ajar and hang a thermometer in the oven to watch the temperature.  Nothing is impossible.  With this method… good luck and do your best. :)


Do soaked sunflower seeds have to be dehydrated?

If you are unable to dry the seeds, it is best only to soak an amount that you can be sure will used within two or three days.  As with any live food, mold tends to set in within days if you’re not careful. They will need to be stored in water, sealed tight, and placed in the fridge.  It is important to rinse them twice a day with fresh water.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



