Raw Caraway and Dill Onion Crackers (nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/crackers/raw-caraway-and-dill-onion-crackers-nut-free/



	Caraway and Dill Onion Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Raw crackers are pretty much the main staple in our house.   But each time I make them, I play with new flavor notes and bases. I just can’t leave well enough alone. :)  Bob says that I am a “one-hit-wonder”.

He never expects the same recipe to be made over and over.  When he really falls for a particular one, he has to get in my face and in a broken down simplistic manner he will say,  “I WANT you to make THIS (recipe) again, PLEASE.”  ….  “OK-I-think-I-understand-you.” hehe    It’s kind of like asking Picasso to create the same painting over and over and over.   It’s just not gonna happen on its own. :)

This cracker is rich in flavor.  The onion base creates a perfect foundation for the caraway and dill.  Although this cracker stands perfectly on its own, I have tried many raw cheeses with it and there can be a wonderful marriage of flavors. But do keep in mind that the accompanying spread / cheese needs enough flavor so not to get drowned out.

After the dehydration process, the cracker remains a little soft.  So don’t expect it to dry crispy.  It is a strong cracker through and won’t crumble under a heap of toppings.

In the photos below I created a “stack” of yumminess that was perfect for a mid-day snack for Bob.   I will be sharing those recipes soon.

Ingredients:

Yields about 50 crackers

Dry ingredients:


1 cup ground raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1 cup ground  flax seeds

3 Tbsp caraway seeds, ground

1 Tbsp fennel seeds, ground

1 Tbsp dried dill


Wet ingredients:


2 1/2 lbs (3 large onions) sweet onions, peeled & rough chopped

1/2 cup cold pressed olive oil

6 Tbsp gluten-free Tamari


Preparation:


Place the sunflower seeds in the food processor, fitted with ‘s’ blade and process until it reaches a chunky flour texture.

Add ground flax, caraway seeds, fennel seeds and dill.  Pulse together.

I freshly ground the caraway and fennel seeds together in my Bullet before adding.

Place a large mixing bowl.




Place the roughly chopped onions in the food processor and process until broken down into small pieces.  Add Tamari and drizzle in the olive oil while the processor is running.

Add the dry ingredients to the food processor and process until smooth.  Let the batter sit for 15+ minutes.

This gives the flax time to thicken up the batter.




Spread the batter onto the teflex sheets about 1/4″ thick, score the crackers to the desired size with a pizza cutter or knife (press gently, you don’t want to cut your teflex sheet.

Optional:  I sprinkled white and black sesame seeds on top before placing in the dehydrator.  Great presentation wise.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 5 hours or until dry enough to remove from the teflex and place directly on the mesh sheets to continue the drying process.

This can take 8-10 hours.  These time frames are to be used as a guideline.

Drying times will always vary depending on the climate, humidity and if the dehydrator is full or not.




Store in an airtight container.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



