Raw French Garden Bread
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/artisan-breads/french-garden-bread/



	French Garden Bread

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

By the looks of my kitchen, a bakery just opened shop!  I need my own cafe or company…I have food everywhere.  My passion for raw foods only increases over time; it has yet to diminish in the least bit over the years.  My husband and our dear friend Craiger (who is staying with us for 2-3 weeks)  are loving this as well.  They are my taste testers, and so far they have LOVED every single one of them.

I don’t share that to be tooting a horn here; it just tickles me that Craiger, who is new to understanding what raw foods/dishes are has been raving non-stop over every raw recipe I make.  I love it!

He wants me to teach him how to make several of the dishes already. And that is where my passion is, to teach others, to encourage others to add more healthy dishes/foods into their diets. I want to quickly touch base on a few ingredients that I commonly use in raw bread and cake recipes.


Almond pulp & Its importance to the Recipe



Every batch of pulp will differ in moisture.  This all depends on how much of the milk you can squeeze from the nut bag.   Therefore, you may need to adjust the amount of liquids being used in recipes calling for nut pulp.  If it has a really dry feeling, more moisture may need to be added.  Or if the pulp is wet, less moisture would probably be necessary.



It is also best to make sure that the pulp is unflavored, and that is a step that has to be taken when first making almond milk.  There is a link below that you can click on to learn more about this process if you are unfamiliar with it.  BUT should your pulp already have small hints of sweetness to it, not to worry… I doubt it would be enough to affect the outcome of this recipe.  I don’t recommend any substitutions for the almond pulp.  It is the key ingredient that helped me to create a light and airy batter.


Irish Moss Gel or Kelp Paste



It is a must that I touch base on this ingredient because it pops up every so often.  The main question, “Do I have to use it? Or What can I use instead?”  Anything is possible when it comes to subbing out ingredients.  But I spend a lot of time developing recipes that have great flavor, texture, and appearance.  Since many people have a hard time finding Irish moss (unless mail-ordered), I came up with the idea of creating a paste from raw kelp noodles.  I can now happily report that both worked perfectly.  The purpose behind these pastes/gels is to give some added nutrition but as equally important… the bread-like texture.  If you are dead-set against using these ingredients, my next go-to would be a few tablespoons of psyllium husks.  Have fun experimenting, but I highly recommend making the recipe that I designed first.


French Garden Herb Mix

I created this recipe back in 2011 and used a spice blend that is no longer being manufactured. It was a spice blend that is similar to an Italian seasoning mix.  So please use something equivalent until I get to fine-tune a spice blend. blessings, amie sue


Ingredients:


1 cup oat flour

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

3 Tbsp coconut flour

1 Tbsp Italian seasoning mix

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt



2 cups packed, moist almond pulp

1/2 cup Irish moss or Kelp paste

1/4 cup date paste

1 Tbsp lemon juice




Preparation:



In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the oat flour, flax, coconut flour, seasoning, and salt.  Pulse till mixed.

Add almond pulp, Irish moss, date paste,  and lemon juice.  Blend till everything is well incorporated.

Depending on how moist your almond pulp is, you may need to add water, so the dough sticks together nicely.  Add 1 Tbsp at a time until the right consistency is reached.




Remove the batter and shape it into the desired size.  Score the top with a knife. I later use these score marks as a guide in slicing my pieces.

Place the bread loaf on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator and dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour.  This will create a crust on the outside.

After 1 hour, remove from the dehydrator and cut the bread slices to the desired thickness.  I did mine at about 1″ thick.

Return to the mesh sheet laying the pieces flat.




Decrease the temperature to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dehydrate for 4+ hours.

As an indicator, if it is dry enough, touch the center of the bread slices.  You don’t want it to be doughy, but you also don’t want the bread to dry out too much.

The dry time can be affected by the thickness of the bread, the humidity in the climate in which you live, and the make of the dehydrator.




Shelf life and storage:  Store the bread in an air-tight container, in the fridge, for 3-5 days.

The more moisture that is left in your bread, the shorter the shelf life.  Therefore, shelf life will vary with your drying technique.

Whenever I make this bread, it never lasts very long enough to spoil.

Keep in mind, the whole purpose of eating a raw diet is to eat foods at their peak of freshness, so don’t expect this bread to have an extended expiration date.




This bread also freezes very well.  Wrap each piece in plastic wrap, then place in a freezer Zip-lock bag. If well protected, it should keep for up to 3 months.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



