Raw Caramel Apples
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/sweet-treats/raw-caramel-apples/



	Caramel Apples

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Last week as I was browsing the produce department at the grocery store I stumbled upon the most adorable miniature apples!   I love taking my time and looking at all the different fruits and veggies, allowing my mind to wander.  When I have the time to do this, creations are born.

And these tiny apples became a great inspiration.  I absolutely love trial size items.  Not sure why but I have since I was a child.  I still laugh when I reflect back to a fond memory when I received a gift from my parents.  I gently opened the present, and when I removed the tissue paper, there were all sorts of tiny trial sized bottles; shampoos, lotions, q-tips, etc.  I was sooo excited.  I ooo’d and aaah’d over each bottle.  Holding them up one at a time so all could see them.

As I was about 3/4 of the way through my mom ran out of patience…”Would you just lift up the bottom piece of tissue paper!”  Gosh, her reaction startled me,  I was enjoying my tiny bottles!  So, I removed the tissue, and there was a plane ticket to visit my best friend, Angie, who had recently moved to another state.  I was overjoyed of course, but I still laugh as to how enthralled I was just to get trial sized bottles.

So that brings me back to the itsy-bitsy apples that I found in the produce section.  They were sweet crab apples.  Instantly, I knew I wanted to make miniature caramel apples!  That evening I made the delicious caramel and assembled my sweet tiny treats.  The next day I took them to the store to share with everyone.

As I passed them out, I explained that since they were apples,  they did, in fact, have seeds in them.  Everyone just looked at me, “Like Duh!”  So, I finally stopped telling people that.  It was then that someone took a huge bite and ended up with apple seeds in their mouth.  “Why didn’t you tell me there were seeds in them?”  haha  For Pete’s sake, I can’t win sometimes. :)

Anyway, they turned out scrumptious.  You will have to keep them stored in the fridge until you are ready to serve them though.  The caramel will soften and sag a little.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:

Yields 1 1/2 cups 


1/2 cup raw almond butter

1/2 cup maple syrup or dark agave syrup

1/2 cup date paste

2 tsp vanilla extract

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

Crushed raw pecans (for decorating)


Preparation:


In a high-powered blender combine the almond butter, sweetener, date paste, vanilla, and salt.  Blend until creamy and well mixed. Place in a bowl for dipping apples into.

Stop occasionally to scrape the sides down.

If your caramel sauce seems too thin right after you make it,  set it in the fridge to firm up a bit before dipping your apple in it.




Using sucker sticks (bought at Micheal’s Craft store) poke them down in the apple where the stem was.

Dip your apple in the caramel sauce and then dip in crush pecans.

Set on a plate and put in the fridge, so it sets up.

You can set each one in a muffin paper cup to make them nice for serving to others.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



