Bread Recipe Template
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/artisan-breads/bread-making-guide-101/



	Bread Recipe Template for RAW Recipes

													    
    


				A clean take on creating and enjoying raw, gluten-free alternatives


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

To say that I am a bread lover is an understatement. The ONLY bread that I don’t like is bread with mold on it. That’s a game-changer for me. ;) Throughout the years as I embarked upon a healthier eating style, I thought that I had to view bread as a long-lost love affair. But thankfully, I left a breadcrumb trail and found myself being able to enjoy it once again.

A common concern of many newcomers to raw food is, “What the heck do I eat instead of bread?” My response is, you don’t have to give up bread! And this is when they go cross-eyed. Raw bread is a lifesaver for raw food purists and those who want to clean up their diet a bit. I will go as far as to say that my bread recipes are life-changing. I know that’s quite a statement to suggest that a humble loaf of raw bread will change your life, but it can and will.

So What is Raw Bread?

Raw Artisan Breads are those that are handcrafted, rather than mass-produced. They are prepared in small batches giving special attention to using raw, organic ingredients that are “cooked” in a dehydrator rather than an oven. And since enzymes are delicate, this process ensures that we receive the full benefits of the living enzymes for digestion and optimal health.




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

These are just some of the key ingredients that I use when creating raw breads.
Almond pulp:


I tend to use the almond pulp as the base of my breads because it gives the best texture by far.

Almond pulp is a by-product of making almond milk. I love that nothing needs to go to waste.

1 cup of almonds equals 1/2 cup of packed moist almond pulp.

You can freeze almond pulp so that you can build up a stash for future bread making.

Place a premeasured amount in a ziplock bag and remove as much of the air as possible before sealing.

Flatten the bag, label, and date it.

Lay it flat in the freezer, so once frozen, it won’t take up much room.

It will keep for three months, if not longer.




The moisture level of the almond pulp is dependent on hand strength when squeezing out the milk, so sometimes you need to add a little water to the dough if it appears too dry. You never want to have liquid dripping from the pulp.

Learn more about it (here).


Psyllium Husks:


I use psyllium husks in most of the bread recipes and with good reason.

It complements the light and airy almond pulp, creating a spongy, light texture in the bread.

It is used to bind all the lovely ingredients together without resorting to glutenous flour.




Psyllium seed husks are one of nature’s most absorbent fibers and can suck up over ten times its weight in water.

As psyllium thickens when liquid is added, it is known to help get things moving in the digestion area. So, If you are eating dishes with these husks, please be sure to drink plenty of water throughout the day.




Depending on the recipe, I will use anywhere from 2 tablespoons to 1/2 cup.

Psyllium comes in powder or husk form. You will want to make sure you use what the recipe recommends.

Psyllium powder equals one third the whole husks. So for instance, a 1/3 cup psyllium powder = 1 cup psyllium husks. So as you can see, the volume is quite different based on the form of psyllium that you use.




For a bit more information about psyllium husks, click (here).


Irish Moss:


Irish Moss is an unprocessed, raw seaweed, which can be used as an excellent thickener and adds loft to the bread.

Typically, if you use Irish Moss, you don’t need to use psyllium.

It won’t add any flavor to the bread.

To learn more about it and how to make it, please click (here).


Kelp Paste:


You can make kelp paste from Raw Kelp Noodles, which are a sea vegetable in the form of a raw noodle.  Made of only kelp, sodium alginate (sodium salt extracted from a brown seaweed), and water.

They are fat-free, gluten-free, and extremely low in carbohydrates and calories.

Typically, if you use kelp paste, you don’t need to use psyllium.

The role of kelp paste is to help thicken the dough and add more loft.

It won’t add any flavor to the bread.

For more information on kelp paste and how to make it, click (here).


Flax or Chia Seeds:


You can use either seed in place of the other.

Flax seeds offer a nutty hint of flavor to the bread, whereas chia seeds don’t have any taste to it.

Flax comes in brown or golden colors. Golden will lend a more authentic bread-like appearance.

In most cases, you will want to grind either of them into a powder before adding to a recipe.

Due to their high-fat content, I recommend only grinding as much as you need at any one time.




The role of these seeds is to act as a binder and add bulk to the recipe.

For more information on how to grind flax seeds, click (here). The same technique will be used for chia seeds.

To learn about their health benefits, click (here) for chia seeds and (here) for flax seeds.


Sweeteners:


I often use two to three different types of sweeteners to create a layer of complex flavors.

You might see me using stevia along with other sweeteners.

I do this to cut down on the total amount of sugars used. Stevia will brighten the other sweeteners used without imparting its flavor. I only use liquid NuNaturals alcohol-free stevia.




If you decide to add dried fruits to the bread, make sure they aren’t hard and tough, as that can make it challenging to blend the dough.

To soften dried fruits, soak in enough warm water to cover them.

Once soft, drain the soak water and hand-squeeze any excess water from them.




Date paste works great in sweetbreads as it doubles as a sweetener and binder.


Nut, Coconut, or Grain Flours:


You can make or purchase nut or grain flours.

To make flour, click (here). There are many options; you can use nuts or seeds, or oats, or even buckwheat.




If a recipe calls for almond pulp, you can substitute ground nuts. But be aware that it will change the density of the bread.

Store-bought coconut flour should not be used as an equal replacement for any other nut flour. It is very drying and will absorb all the moisture out of the dough.

If you insist on using coconut flour as the leading flour, grind dried coconut down to a flour-like texture and use it as a substitute across the board.

For example, if a recipe calls for 1 cup of almond flour, use 1 cup of fresh ground dried coconut. Again, don’t use store-bought in this application.




Feel free to combine different flours when creating a recipe.

Combinations help bring in a variety of nutrients, flavor, and texture.





Vegetable Pulp or Whole:


You can use the vegetable pulp, which is a by-product of making juice as the bulk of your bread ingredients.

Depending on your juicer, some pulps will have more moisture left in them than others. So be sure to adjust your recipe if the pulp is either too wet or even too dry.

If you make a lot of vegetable juices, don’t toss the pulp. Freeze in ziplock baggies for up to three months.




You can use whole zucchini as a bulking ingredient in raw breads as well.

Place the zucchini in your food processor and pulse until completely broken down. Don’t overprocess.

To remove most of the water from the shredded zucchini, place it in a clean linen towel, gather up the corners, twist, and squeeze tight over the sink.




Other whole veggies can be used as well. Keep in mind how their flavors will affect the bread when it’s all said and done. :)





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			

		

For recipe inspirations, click (here) to see all my bread recipes

Loaves:


Loaves of bread are beautiful and make for an impressive presentation.

Loaves can be shaped by hand or by using a loaf pan.

By hand, you can shape them into a rectangle or round loaves.

With a pan, line the pan with plastic wrap bringing the plastic up and over the edges. Press the dough into the pan. Once formed, lift the plastic wrap to remove it from the pan.




There are several things to keep in mind when drying a loaf of bread.

Dehydrate the whole loaf for 1 hour at 145 degrees (F); this will create a nice outer crust on the bread.

Remove the loaf and carefully slice the bread into pieces at your desired thickness. Lay each piece flat on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Reduce the temperature to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dry until it reaches the texture you like.




If you don’t have a dehydrator with a large cavity such as the Excalibur or Sedona, you will have to hand shape each slice and lay them flat on the dehydrator mesh sheet.


Flatbread:


You can create a flatbread even if you don’t have a dehydrator with a large cavity to slide a loaf into or if you want to speed up the drying process.

Spread the bread dough about 1/2″ thick on a nonstick dehydrator sheet and score into bread shaped sizes.

Use the same drying techniques as listed below.


Buns:


Use the same dough that you would for any of the bread recipes and transform them into bun shapes.

Buns can be used sliced in half for sandwiches or served along with a meal. Create the sizes you need according to their purpose.

To mold into a bun shape, create a round ball with the dough, place on a nonstick surface, and gently press down on top of it with your hand cupped. From there, you can adjust the shape with your fingertips.

Use the same drying techniques as listed below.


Breadsticks:


Once again, the dough from raw breads is proving to be versatile.

To create breadsticks, measure out the dough into equal measurements.

Roll into the shape of a ball in the palm of your hands.

Then make them into cylinder-shaped breadsticks by rolling them back and forth on a nonstick surface.




For a beautiful presentation, roll them in white and/or black sesame seeds.

Use the same drying techniques as listed below.

These will be drying quicker as they are much smaller, so keep an eye on them. I usually pull mine out in two to four hours.

However, if you don’t want soft breadsticks, you can make them crunchy by leaving them in the dehydrator for more time.





Wraps:


Wraps are a fun addition to your meals.

Wraps can be made by creating circular shapes or one large square.

For sandwiches, I recommend 6-8″ circles.

For hors d’oeuvres, I recommend 3-5″ circles.

For a party sandwich, I suggest spreading the batter from one edge to the other on the dehydrator tray. When ready for serving, build with sandwich makings as if creating a sushi roll. Tuck, roll, and slice into individual servings. Great for entertaining.




The key to making a successful wrap is to use the right ingredients and to watch the drying process, so they don’t get too dry and crack.

To create a flexible wrap, you will need to use either flaxseeds, chia seeds, Irish moss, kelp paste, or psyllium. These are the top ingredients that keep the wraps bound together and pliable.

The drying process is crucial.

They need to be removed when still pliable but not wet.

If they get over-done, often you can rescue them by spritzing water on the backside to soften.




For recipe inspiration, click (here) to see all my wrap recipes.


Croutons:


Croutons can easily be made from the same doughs used for bread making.

They are so simple to make.

Spread the dough roughly 1/2″ thick, square up the edges, and score into small cubes. I use a long metal ruler for this.

Almond pulp makes the best croutons because they are light and airy.

Dry until crispy.

Storage:

In the counter, they should keep for five to seven days for the best flavor.




For recipe inspiration, click (here) to see all my crouton recipes.


Storage of the above items:

It is always best to store raw breads (wraps, buns, breadsticks, etc.) in the fridge or freezer since they tend to still have some moisture in them. Croutons, on the other hand, are fine kept at room temperature because all of the moisture has been removed.


In the fridge, they should keep for five to seven days. Wrap individually in plastic wrap and then slip into a ziplock bag to protect from odors.

In the freezer, they should keep anywhere from one to three months. Wrap individually in plastic wrap and then slip into a freezer ziplock bag to protect from odors and frostbite.


Note for toppings:


For a more beautiful presentation, add flaxseeds, chia seeds, poppy seeds, dried minced onion flakes, sunflower seeds, etc. on top.  Don’t use too large of pieces.





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Dehydrating to perfection:


When creating a loaf, shape the bread loaf and then place it on the mesh sheet that comes with the machine to allow the air to circulate the bread better.

Start the temperature at 145 degrees (F) for the first hour. Click (here) to learn why it’s ok to start with this high of heat.

By setting the temp to 145 degrees, it will create a crust on the outside of the bread, reminiscent of baked bread.

It also speeds up the drying process.




Always set a timer so you don’t forget to reduce the temp to 115 degrees (F) after that first hour.

Dry times vary:

The dry time will vary based on the climate and humidity, how full the machine is, the amount of moisture in the bread, and so forth.

Always use the dehydration times as a suggested guideline.

When making bread for the first time, check in on it often to see how it is progressing. Have one piece dedicated to taste test along the way to see what texture you like.

I don’t recommend drying breads below 115 degrees (F). The longer it takes to dry, the more chances you have of it growing bacterias, and it can sour.




After the first hour, remove the bread and slice anywhere from 1/4″ – 1″ thick pieces.

Thinner breads are great for sandwich building. If the bread is too thick, it can be harder to eat due to the height of the overall sandwich and maybe way too filling.

Medium cuts are excellent for snacking and for making open-face sandwiches.

Thick, 1″ cuts are excellent for sweeter breads which are often enjoyed with a simple spread and a cup of tea.




Raw breads should be dry to the touch but moist on the inside.

When you press on the center, it should spring back.

If batter sticks to your finger, you need to dry it longer.




If you over-dry the bread and too much moisture has been removed, don’t toss it away. Cut it up and use for croutons on green salads.


Baking as an option:


Some of you don’t own dehydrators but still want to make raw breads.

If you want to make raw bread and need to use an oven because you don’t own a dehydrator, there are ways to adjust for this. I have dedicated a post about this process. Please click (here). I can’t guarantee that the bread will remain raw, but this will be the best chance you will have using an oven.

If raw isn’t your priority but using healthier ingredients is, you can bake the raw breads.

Each bread will bake in its unique way, so it will require your full attention during the cooking process.

Be sure to document the temp and time for future loaves of bread making.





Well, that about sums it for now. I hope that you find this guide helpful. If I missed anything and you still have questions, please post them below so I can address them and add to the raw bread making guide. Blessings, amie sue :)

P.S. Always remember to drink a lot of water when consuming dehydrated foods so you can bring moisture back into the digestive system. Click (here) to read a bit more on this topic.

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



