Raw Hearty Smoked Chili
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/hearty-smoked-chili/



	Hearty Smoked Chili | Raw Vegan | Oil-Free

													    
    


				A warm pot of chili on a cold winter’s day is one of the most comforting foods I can think of. Chili warms you inside and out, plus it’s filling, easy to make, and nutritious to boot. This recipe is straightforward to pull together.  As your eyes scan over the ingredient list, you might feel a bit intimated by its length, blame the spices for that.   Just take a deep breath and tell yourself,  “I can do this!” Because you can, I promise.



I broke it into three segments to ease your mind.  The sauce… super easy, pulse in the food processor.  The spices… super-duper easy, scoop and plop in a food processor.  Boy, don’t I sound like a seasoned chef (ohoh a pun! hehe) and then the veggies… No sweat. Chop and place in the food processor.  Pulse all together and voila!  I promised you it was easy.  If a recovering spice-a-phobic like me can handle this, you can too.

You can enjoy this chili right away, but I highly recommend putting it into a bowl, covering, and sliding into the fridge overnight.  By doing this, it will allow all the amazing flavors to meld together.  When you cook food with heat, the heat opens all the flavors and brings them together right away, but I am sure that you have experienced that soups, stews, chilies… always taste better the next or even two days later.



As you make this recipe, you have the added beauty in making this just the way you like.  I have had many chilies in my life, and they have ranged from thick and hearty to a more soup-like texture. We like it thick and hearty.

Below, I instruct you to rehydrate the sun-dried tomatoes in 2 cups of warm water.  I didn’t use the sun-dried tomatoes that come packed in oil.  You will remove the tomatoes from the soak water, but keep that water to add at the very end.  I added all of it, and as you can see in my pictures, it is rather thick.  So, if it is still too thick for your liking, add more water.

I also added some walnuts to the recipe.  I did this for the nutritional values of omega 3’s but also because it adds to the overall flavor, and I do enjoy a little crunch and heartiness in my chili.   You can always use sunflower seeds if you can’t eat nuts or just omit them altogether.   I hope you enjoy it and please let me know if you try it.  I always love to hear your comments.  I served this with my Vegan Pepper Jack Cheese, a great combo!

Ingredients:

Yields 7 cups

Sauce: 


1 medium (112 g) avocado, pitted

2 medium (229 g) tomatoes, rough chopped

1/2 cup (40 g) sun-dried tomatoes, rehydrated in 2 (422 g) cups water

2 Tbsp (29 g) lemon juice

1 Tbsp (17 g) maple syrup


Spices:


1 Tbsp (3 g) dried oregano

1 Tbsp (9 g)  chili powder

2 tsp (6 g) ground cumin

2 tsp (6 g) smoked paprika

1 tsp (1 g) red pepper flakes

1 tsp (3 g ) garlic powder

1 tsp (3 g) fresh cracked black pepper

1/2 tsp (3 g) celery salt

1/2 tsp (1 g) dried thyme

1/2 tsp (4 g) sea salt


Veggies:


1 cup (98 g) raw walnuts, soaked

2 cups (340 g) diced fresh portobello mushroom, gills removed, 1 large mushroom

1 cup (175 g)  diced tomato

2/3 cup (107 g)  diced yellow bell pepper,  about 1 pepper

2/3 cup (120 g) diced onion, about 1/2 medium onion

1 cup (157 g) organic corn kernels


Preparation:


Rehydrate the sun-dried tomatoes in 2 cups of warm water while you get all of the other ingredients ready.  This step is just to soften them.  After soaking, remove the tomatoes from the water but keep the soak water.  Set the water aside for now.

In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse together the avocado flesh, fresh tomatoes, sun-dried tomatoes, lemon juice, and maple syrup.

Add the spices; oregano, chili powder, cumin, paprika, red pepper flakes, garlic powder, black pepper, celery salt, thyme, and salt.  Pulse together.

Add the walnuts, mushroom, tomato, yellow pepper, onion, and corn kernels.  Pulse just a few times.  Add the sun-dried tomato soak water, as little or as much of it as you like.  I used all of it.

For a nut-free option, replace the walnuts with sunflower seeds




Serve at room temperature or warm in the dehydrator, setting the temp at 145 degrees (F) for 30 minutes or until warm.  You can also heat it on the stove in a small saucepan to finger dipping temp.

Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-4 days.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



