Spicy Italian Kale Chips (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/kale-chips/spicy-italian-kale-chips/



	Spicy Italian Kale Chips

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Ready to take a road trip with me?  If so, have your bags packed when you make this recipe, because you will soon be transported to sunny Italy!

Spices are fundamental to Italian cuisine so using the right combination is crucial.  Therefore I used Homemade Dressings Italian Gardening seasoning mix.  It is a traditional blend of herbs and spices including basil, oregano, and garlic that gives a true Italian flavor.

You will find that I tend to use their spice mixes quite often in my recipes.   They are 100% natural, no sugar added and they are gluten-free.  If you don’t have a premixed Italian seasoning on hand, you can make your own blend.  You will find a recipe down below.

I want to share a few tips for making a successful batch of kale chips.  Start off with fresh kale.  Wilted kale can often taste bitter.  Use curly kale; it holds onto the sauce much better which gives it that great crunch.  Tear the kale into bite-sized pieces.  Kale chips can be very messy to eat when you have to take multiple bites of the chip.

Wash the kale but really pay attention to the drying process.  Wet kale will repel the sauce and make it watery.  I make my sauces nice and thick and use a particular ratio of sauce to kale to ensure a hearty chip!  With these tips, you should end up with a magnificent kale chip.  Enjoy and please keep me posted if you give this recipe a try.  I am pretty confident in saying that you just might end up eating a whole head of kale in one sitting so I think it is my responsibility to remind you to drink plenty of water.  Dehydrated foods can be dehydrating on the body, so drinking more fluids is recommended. :)

Ingredients:

yields 3 cups sauce


2 cups cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 1/2 cups water

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1/4 cup (25 g) sun-dried tomatoes

1 Tbsp + 2 tsp Italian seasoning

1 tsp red pepper flakes

1 tsp dried oregano

2 heads (16 oz) curly kale



Preparation:

Kale Prep:



Selecting Kale:

Don’t use wilted / old kale; it can have a bitter undertone.

I prefer Curly Kale because all of the folds really hold onto the sauce.




Wash and de-stem your kale.

Start by washing the kale and blotting it dry.  You can also use a salad spinner if you own one.

Make sure you get as much excess water off of the kale as possible.  If you don’t, it will make your sauce “soupy.”  Set aside.

Starting at the bottom strip away the leaf leaving behind only the stem.

Tear the remaining leaves into pieces that are a tad larger than bite-size since they tend to shrink.





Sauce Prep:


After the cashews are done soaking, drain and discard the soak water.

In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, water, vinegar, lemon juice, sun-dried tomatoes, and seasonings. Blend until the sauce is creamy smooth.

If the sun-dried tomatoes are really hard, soak them in enough hot water to cover them.   Drain and add to the sauce when ready.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Create a vortex in the blender; this will help ensure that the sauce is getting fully blended into a creamy texture.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high,  the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center.  High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape down the sides.

This process can take 1-3 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender.  Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth.  If the batter is getting too warm., stop the machine and let it cool, then proceed once cooled.





Assembly:


Place the torn kale into a very large bowl.

Pour in the sauce and with your hands gently and evenly coat each piece of kale.

This is a “hands-on” job.  Stirring with a spoon just doesn’t do the trick.

I would suggest removing any jewelry from your fingers.  I have temporarily lost a ring here and there.





Dehydrator Method:


Have the dehydrator trays ready by lining them with non-stick teflex or parchment paper.

Don’t use wax paper because food tends to stick to it.

Spread all the trays out in advance because soon your hands will be covered in sauce and you don’t want to get it all over.




Place the kale on the non-stick sheets.  You can do this 1 of 2 ways:

Lay each piece out semi-flat if you want to create individual pieces.  More time consuming and chips tend to a be a little bit more fragile.

Or, drop clumps of coated kale on the sheets.  This will create hardy clusters that are loaded with sauce and flavor.  This is my preference.




Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for about 6-8 hrs or until dry.

I tend to pull mine out before it gets 100% dry because I like it a little chewy.

The dry time is just an estimate.  The climate, humidity, dehydrator and how full the machine is can all affect how long it will take to dry.




Store in an airtight glass container and be ready to nibble non-stop till the last crumb is gone!

If the kale chips start taking on some humidity from the house, you can place them back into the dehydrator for a few hours at 115 degrees (F).


Oven Method:


Please use as a guide and closely monitor the kale chips as they cook.

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees (F), anything higher and risk burning the chips.

Line the baking sheet with parchment paper and place the kale chips on the baking sheet in a single layer.

Bake for 10 minutes, rotate the pan and bake for another 15 minutes.

The bake times will vary based on your oven, but it’s a good starting off point!




Once you pull the tray from the oven, allow the chips to cool on the baking sheet.

Store in an airtight glass container and be ready to nibble non-stop till the last crumb is gone!


How to make your own Italian Seasoning Mix:

Ingredients: yields 5 Tbsp


2 1/4 Tbsp dried basil

2 1/4 Tbsp dried oregano

2 1/4 Tbsp dried parsley

3/4 Tbsp garlic powder

3/4 tsp onion powder

3/4 tsp dried thyme

3/4 tsp dried rosemary

1/4 tsp black pepper

1/4 tsp red pepper flakes


Preparation:


Mix all ingredients in a spice grinder.

Store in an airtight jar for up to 6 months.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



