Orange Hazel Nut Fig Muesli
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/breakfast/orange-hazel-nut-fig-muesli/



	Orange Hazel Nut Fig Muesli

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Breakfast…  Because sometimes you just need a reason to get up in the morning. Orange Hazel Nut Fig Muesli just might do that for you.

Here’s the thing, I live a very blessed life… I am surrounded by people whom I just love and adore… I am able to live out my passion every day…. but sometimes, just sometimes, that isn’t enough.

Every once in a while knowing that I have a breakfast like this waiting for me, helps me to peel back those warm incubator blankets so I can get my day rolling.  A friend shared with me that there was a saying in her family, “Once you let your feet hit the floor… you are committed to the day.”  I always loved that thought because it is so true.

Speaking of committing to something… While taking the pictures for this recipe, I decided to pour the milk into the cereal while attempting to take a picture at the same time.  This isn’t the easiest feat to take on. And once I started to pour the milk, I was committed. Lol, As you can see, I had a little snafu.  But this is one of those… “all or nothing” photos,  so here it is. :)

This muesli cereal tastes amazing when left to soak in the nut milk overnight.  It creates a porridge-like texture with bits of crunch (from the nuts) and bits of chew (from the dried figs).  It also gives time for all the other wonderful flavors to meld together.  I used raw honey as part of the sweetening, but if you are vegan, you can use any other liquid sweetener.  Personally, I feel ok with having raw honey every once in a while and love the “warming” taste that it offers the muesli.

Well, it’s time to let you go so you can get busy in the kitchen.  Get it in the dehydrator, and I will meet you for breakfast in the morning. :)

Ingredients:

Yields 6 cups dried muesli


4 cups gluten-free rolled oats, soaked

2 cups hazelnuts, soaked

2 cups quinoa, sprouted or cooked

1 cup dried figs, re-hydrate & chop

4 large dried figs, diced

3 Tbsp orange zest

1 cup fresh orange juice (took 2 oranges)

1/2 cup raw honey or coconut nectar for vegan

2 Tbsp maple syrup

2 Tbsp chia seeds

2 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


After the oats are done soaking, drain, and rinse them under cool water for 2 minutes.

Use your fingers to agitate them while rinsing.

Hand squeeze the excess water from them and place them in a large bowl.




Drain and discard the soak water from the hazelnuts and add to the oats.

Rehydrate 1 cup of dried figs in enough warm water to soften them for at least 15 minutes.  After the soak period, drain and rough chop.

Prepare the quinoa, either sprouted or cooked, and then add to the bowl.

Dice the 4 dried figs and add to the bowl with the oats, nuts, etc.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine; 1 cup soaked figs, orange juice, sweeteners, chia seeds, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt.  Process until nice and smooth.

Pour sauce over the grains, nuts, and dried figs.  Sprinkle the orange zest on top and mix until everything is well coated.

Allow the batter to rest for about 15 minutes, giving the chia seeds any extra time needed to absorb any liquid in the bowl.




Spread 2 cups of the mixture on the non-stick Teflex sheets that comes with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate everything at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 16-24 hours.

At the half mark remove the teflex sheets, allowing the granola to continue drying on the mesh sheets until it is dry.

Dry times will always vary depending on the climate, humidity, and how thick or thin you spread the mixture.




Once done and cooled, break the granola up. Place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, and pulse into small bits.

Store in a glass container for 1-2 weeks or sometimes I makeup quart size bags of it and store in the freezer for 1-3 months.

Muesli is often enjoyed after soaking in your favorite nut milk for 30 minutes (If you like it crunchy) or overnight for a more porridge-like texture. (my fav).  I also love soaking it in raw coconut yogurt.



The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™



To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 

 





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



