American Cheese Singles (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/spreads-cheeses/vegan-american-cheese-singles/



	American Cheese Singles

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Do you remember Kraft Singles American Cheese? It is sold as individually wrapped “slices” that are not really sliced off a block, but instead, formed separately during manufacturing.

It is a processed cheese product made with: milk, whey, milk protein concentrate, milkfat, sodium citrate, contains less than 2% of calcium phosphate, whey protein concentrate, salt, lactic acid, sorbic acid as a preservative, cheese culture, annatto, and paprika extract (color), enzymes, and vitamin d3.

I haven’t had a slice of Kraft American Cheese for many many many years, but I have fond childhood memories of it. I really don’t think that I gave the flavor all that much thought, it was just fun to play with.

As an in-between meal snack, my great-grandmother would hand me a slice of cheese as I skipped through the kitchen, pigtails bouncing, and dirt crumbling off my shoes, leaving evidence once again that Amie Sue was there.

With the cheese in hand, I skipped out the front door, singing at the top of my lungs.  I would then plop myself on the front porch step, and as I anxiously unwrapped the cheese, I would tilt my face into the sun, close my eyes and slap the slice of cheese on my sun-kissed, freckled cheek.

Yep, you heard me right… I slapped it on my cheek.  Why? Do children really need a reason? Lol,  It was a rubbery square that was cool to the touch and stuck to anything you slapped it against.  I chose my cheek.  I peeled it off and did it several times over before I would commit to eating it.

After feeling satisfied with my self-entertainment, I would then fold it over and over and over, breaking it into tiny squares, from there I would swallow each itty-bitty piece one by one.   With no time to spare, I jetted off the porch in search for a mud puddle to play in…  It was time to make my famous mud pie!  Life was good.

There’s a new “cheese” in town!

My Vegan American Cheese Singles is a cheese that comes individually wrapped in a thin, plastic film… well after you personally wrap it. If you feel compelled to unwrap it and slap it on your cheek… I won’t tell anyone. :)  These cheese slices can withstand room temperature for quite some time. My house is typically around 70 degrees (F), and after 3 hours the cheese was still looking, feeling, and tasting good.  What happens beyond 3 hours is unknown, it was gobbled up at that point. These cheese singles pair well with just about anything. The mild creamy taste will enhance your favorite sandwich,  veggie burger, or simply being slapped on cheeks crackers.   Enjoy a slice on my Raw Nutless Veggie Burger.

Ingredients:

Cheese base:


1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hrs

1/4 cup lemon juice

1/4 cup water

1 large red bell pepper, deseeded and rough chopped

1/3 cup nutritional yeast

1 Tbsp onion powder

2 cloves fresh garlic

1 tsp yellow mustard

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Agar gel:


1/2 cup water

4 tsp agar powder


Preparation:


Soak the cashew nuts for at least 2 hours.

This will help to soften the nuts to make a smooth, creamy sauce. And reduce the phytic acids found in nuts that can make them difficult to digest.

Drain and rinse when ready to use.




In a high-powered blender combine; lemon juice, water, and red bell pepper.  Blend till the pepper is well liquefied.

Add the cashews, nutritional yeast, onion, garlic, mustard, and salt.  Blend until creamy, and no grit is detected.  Set aside.


Agar gel:


Learn more about Agar (here)

Before you start the gel, have the baking sheet lined with plastic wrap and set it aside.

Once the cheese mixture is ready, it is time to make the agar gel.

In a small saucepan, whisk together 1/2 cup of water and the agar powder.

Be sure to whisk the mixture as you bring it to a boil on medium-high heat, once it forms bubbles, reduce the heat to low and simmer until the agar is thick and dissolved.

I found it took me about 4 to 5 minutes, to cook/activate the agar

 It will look thick and translucent/whitish color, and when you stir across the bottom of the pan, you shouldn’t notice any grains of agar. If you cook it too long it can get rubbery.

If it starts to gel up in the pan, it means that it has started to cool, return to heat and melt it down again.




Start the blender and get a vortex going with the mixture.

Drizzle in the agar gel and blend until combined.

You will need to stay focused and move fairly quickly.

Agar will start to set up as it cools.

Be careful that the warm liquid doesn’t splatter or “burp” onto your skin.




Pour into the baking sheet and then place in the fridge, uncovered, for at least 30 minutes.

Remove and slice. I wrapped each piece in plastic wrap and sealed in an airtight container in the fridge.  They should keep for 5-7 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



