Red Beet Dressing
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/red-beet-dressing/



	Red Beet Dressing | Oil-Free

													    
    


				Beets are on-trend. From juice to hummus to salads, beets are showing up everywhere, adding color, antioxidants, and flavor at every turn.

If you want to know what my favorite dressing is… this is it. In fact, I think I have enjoyed this dressing every day for many many weeks in a row.   Not only has it brightened up my dishes at mealtimes, but it also added a little ahh, mmm, brightness to my bathroom time as well.  Can you believe that I just shared that? Oy-vey.

Red beets are high in fiber and can encourage faster digestion, which will show up as a bright pigment in your trips to the lulu.   Enzymes chemically alter the color of most foods that we eat as they move through your digestive system; the pigment of beets remains mostly intact.  As a result, it is not uncommon to have a red tinge to your stool for one or two days after eating red beets.  It’s the dressing that keeps on giving. :)

I really can’t remember if I enjoyed beets as a child. As I sit here, I am thumbing through my memory, Rolodex and I can’t recall them ever seeing them on my plate. But I will say that I LOVE them now. I started out eating canned pickled beets, but that ended when I started reading food labels. I made the decision that I won’t be eating them if they added sugar to them.

Random Facts that you can’t Beet!


Eating raw beets or drinking beet juice helps combat garlic breath.

Albert Einstein famously hated beets.

Ancient Greeks used beets to treat a wide range of ailments, such as headaches, constipation, toothaches, wounds, and skin problems.

Beet juice can indicate the acidity of a solution. If a solution turns pink when beet juice is added, it is an acid. If it turns yellow, the solution is alkaline.

The terms “beetroot” and “beet” refer to the same vegetable. The British typically call the red-root vegetable a “beetroot,” while those in the United States and other parts of the world typically refer to them as “beets.”

The entire beet is edible, from the top of the greens to the bottom of the root.


Cooked versus Raw Beets

When I make this recipe, I use cooked beets. They blend easier, making a creamy dressing, but they are also easier on my digestion. You decide what is better for you. I don’t eat a 100% raw diet. I roughly eat 50% raw and 50% cooked. Therefore, beets are one of those veggies that I prefer cooked. If you decide to make this recipe raw, I would first shred the peeled beets in your food processor or with a hand-held shredder. Then add them to the blender and follow the remaining directions.

This dressing tastes fantastic drizzled over a salad, or my favorite way is over a bowl of brown rice, wilted greens, and red kidney beans. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Please share down below and keep in touch.  Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups


1 lb boiled & peeled red beets (4 medium)

1/4 cup water

6 Tbsp balsamic vinegar

5 Tbsp  raw apple cider vinegar

1 Tbsp cold-pressed olive oil (optional)

1/4 tsp salt & pepper


Preparation:


Wash the beets and cut away the stems.

The greens are filled with nutrients, so don’t toss them.




Place in a large enough pan to hold the beets and enough water to cover.

Bring to a boil, then reduce to a rumbling simmer, cooking for about 45 minutes or until fork-tender. The timing will depend on the size of the beets.

Once tender, drain the water and place the beets in the blender.

Add the water, balsamic and apple cider vinegar, salt, and pepper.  Blend until creamy.

Drizzle in the olive oil while the blender is running.

If you are avoiding fat, you can omit the olive oil, and it will still turn out amazing.




Place in a mason jar and chill in the fridge for roughly 5-7 days.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



