Eggless Angel (Deviled) Eggs
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/vegan-eggless-angel-eggs/



	Eggless Angel (Deviled) Eggs

													    
    


				 

Let’s get one thing straight before we dive into this recipe… I used cage-free eggs for this recipe… in fact, I used egg-free eggs!  Now before you get any funny ideas, I didn’t lay these eggs, but I did create them.  :)

This recipe isn’t 100% raw, but if you don’t consume eggs, but still wish to partake of Angel (deviled) Eggs… this is about as close as you are going to come.

I first tested this recipe with 1 1/2 cups of almond milk and 1/2 cup of water. The water was the only thing that I boiled along with the agar powder.   Then added the mixture to the almond milk and salt in the blender.  This worked fine and kept the almond milk raw, but the blending process caused a lot of little air bubbles in the eggs.   Nothing wrong with that, but it just didn’t look right.

So in my next attempt, I brought the almond milk to a low boil and added the agar and salt to it.  Then poured the mixture straight into the molds.  No small air bubbles.  So, this will be your call on how you want to process the almond milk into the recipe.

If you are new to working with agar, it is very easy and fun to play around with, but you have to work quickly.  So be sure to have everything ready to go.   I used a chocolate egg mold and another cake pop mold for this recipe.  I wish I had ordered two of the chocolate egg molds but… and that’s ok because it prompted me to create another recipe, so nothing was lost.

You won’t need to grease the mold because they pop right out but I do recommend removing the eggs from the mold before piping in the filling.   The eggs can be slippery and trust me it is a sad day to see one fly across the counter and onto the floor when trying to remove it with the filling in place. :)

I shared these “eggs” with five different people, all of whom are not known to be healthy eaters.  You know, those who eat purely for pleasure… and they all loved them.  In fact, I didn’t even reveal the fact that they weren’t real egg whites.  If you want a fair chance of getting an honest opinion from someone, don’t tell them ahead of time what they are made from.  Most people are not “that” open-minded to different foods.  Get them moaning with tastebud pleasure, then tell them… if you wish. hehe   Enjoy and have fun!

P.S. Growing up I never referred to this family favorite as Deviled Eggs… perhaps they are devilishly good… but I tend to always think of things on the pure side, so I used to call them Angel Eggs. :)

Ingredients:

yields  16 eggs (2 Tbsp per egg cavity)


“Egg whites”:

2 cups (466 g) plain almond or cashew milk

2 tsp (7 g) agar powder

1/4 tsp (1 g) Kala  Namak (black salt)



“Egg” mixture:

3/4 cup (90 g) raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours  or 1 ½ cups chopped avocado

1/4 cup (57 g) water

1 1/2 Tbsp (27 g) yellow mustard or raw mustard

1 1/2 Tbsp (20 g) raw apple cider vinegar

1 tsp (8 g) raw agave nectar

1/2 tsp (2 g) smoked paprika

1/4 tsp (1 g) onion powder

1 tsp (1 g) dried dill

1/4 tsp (1 g) curry powder

1/4 tsp (1 g) turmeric powder

1 tsp (5 g) Kala Namak (Indian Black Salt) very important gives that  egg taste

1/8 tsp (<1 g) ground black pepper


Preparation:

“Egg whites”:


Place the almond milk, agar, and salt in a small saucepan.

Turn the heat on medium-high and whisk until it starts to bubble.

Reduce the heat to medium and continue to whisk for 4 minutes.  We need to make sure the agar dissolves.




Place the egg mold on a baking sheet or something sturdy to make it easy to transfer to the fridge.

Working quickly, pour the mixture into a measuring cup with a pour spout.

Then fill each egg cavity with agar.

Don’t stop during this process or the mixture will start to gel up.

If this happens, return the mixture to the saucepan and heat back up until melted.




Place the molds in the fridge for at least 30 minutes.

Once they are firm, using a 1/4 tsp round measuring spoon, scoop out a small half circle on the fullest part of the “egg.”  Set aside to make the filling.

This step is optional. It works just as well to pipe the “egg” mixture onto the top of the egg.






“Egg” yoke mixture:


If using cashews; soak, drain, and rinse the cashews before adding to the blender.  If using avocado; peel and remove the seed before adding to the blender.

Add the water, mustard, apple cider vinegar, agave, paprika, onion powder, dill, curry powder, turmeric, Indian Black salt, and pepper.  (Whew, I think I got it all).  Blend until smooth and creamy.

If you used cashews make sure that the sauce is smooth and doesn’t have any tiny bits of cashews.




Pour into a medium-sized mixing bowl and set in the fridge to chill.  It will firm up a bit once chilled.

Place the “egg” filling in a piping bag.  Place the tip into the piping tip into the hole you created in the “yoke” and gently squeeze the batter into the base of it, then create a swirl as you reach the top.

Sprinkle smoked paprika on top and enjoy!



		
		
			
				
			
				
				Lightly simmer mixture to dissolve agar.
				
			
				
			
				
				Pour the mixture into the molds.
				

			
				
			
				
				If you don’t have an egg mold, you can use an egg platter instead!
				
			
				
			
				
				Gather up your ingredients…
				

			
				
			
				
				Gently slip the egg out of the mold.
				
			
				
			
				
				Pipe the mixture on top of the egg.
				

			
				
			
				
				And enjoy….
				
			
				
			
				
				No, really… enjoy!
				

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



