Club Crackers (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/crackers/club-crackers-raw-vegangluten-free/



	Club Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This recipe took 4 attempts to create a basic cracker.  I was aiming for a saltine cracker, but no matter what I did, it kept leaning in the direction of a club cracker.

So, rather than continue to fight it, I accepted it for what it was… a darn good “club” cracker!  Keebler makes the Club Cracker that is a delicious melt-in-your-mouth cracker with an indulgent buttery taste – and a flaky texture.   Though my version may not be exactly like the Keebler brand, it’s pretty tasty, not to mention a whole lot healthier.

Keebler Club Crackers Ingredients:

ENRICHED FLOUR (WHEAT FLOUR, NIACIN, REDUCED IRON, THIAMIN MONONITRATE [VITAMIN B1], RIBOFLAVIN [VITAMIN B2], FOLIC ACID), SOYBEAN OIL WITH TBHQ FOR FRESHNESS, SUGAR, CONTAINS TWO PERCENT OR LESS OF SALT, LEAVENING (SODIUM ACID PYROPHOSPHATE, BAKING SODA, MONOCALCIUM PHOSPHATE), HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP, CORN SYRUP, CORNSTARCH, SOY LECITHIN.

All I can say about that is… Yukka!

One thing that I learned was to keep the salt out of them and instead just put it on them.  Trust me, after experimenting 4x it is better this way.  I used Pink Himalayan Salt, coarse grind, and gave the crackers a liberal dose right before I slid the tray into the dehydrator.  If you forget to do this step, I have a tip just for you.  Spritz the dry crackers with water, sprinkle with salt, and pop back into the dehydrator for about one hour.  Problem solved.

Things I learned as I experimented in the kitchen…


I tried using cashews instead of the hemp seeds and the cracker was more on the sweet side, was good but not exactly what I was looking for.

I tried using cashews and some ground chia seeds but again the sweet flavor came through and the ground chia seeds made the crackers gray in color, not appealing to the eye.

I tried using sprouted, dehydrated buckwheat, ground to flour but it had a very unpleasant aftertaste.

I tried adding salt to the batter but it was too powerful for the delicate balance of the saltine cracker flavor I was aiming for.

If you don’t wish to use butter flavoring as an ingredient, check out my other post for Flakey “Club” Crackers.


Ingredients:

Yields 24 – 36 crackers

Dry Ingredients:


1 cup hemp seeds, ground

2 cups almond flour or raw almond flour

1/4 cup natural raw protein powder


Wet Ingredients:


3/4 cup water

2  tsp butter extract or vanilla extract

6 drops liquid stevia

coarse salt for top


Preparation:


Place the hemp seeds in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, and process till it starts to break down into small pieces.  This won’t turn into a fine powder due to the natural oils in hemp seeds.

Add the almond flour, protein powder, and salt.  Pulse together to mix.

Note: If you pre-soak your nuts, you will want to make sure you have dehydrated then completely dry before you grind them into flour.




Measure out 3/4 cup of water.  Add the butter extract and stevia to the water and stir together.  Pour the liquid into the food processor and mix till it creates a paste-like consistency.

If it is too dry and clumpy, add 1 Tbsp of water at a time till it reaches this stage.




Spread the mixture on the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

The batter will be sticky so dip the spatula in water every now and then to make it easier to spread.

The batter doesn’t shrink up much so make them the thickness that you want in the end.




Score the crackers into the desired sizes.

Sprinkle a liberal amount on top of the crackers.

Remember, these crackers don’t have salt in the batter,  so this step is important.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 2 hours.

Remove and make fork markings on top of the crackers.

Return to the dehydrator and continue to dry for about 18 more hours.




Remove and cool to room temp.  These crackers don’t have a huge snap in them but they good and sturdy.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




 


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



