Caramelized Onion Spread (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/spreads/caramelized-onion-spread/



	Caramelized Onion Spread

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I have never had to so much fun playing around with onions as I have this past week.  I was “gifted” 10 lbs of gorgeous milky white onions.  They sat on my counter for a few days waiting for me to find my inspiration.  And when it hit, it hit!

It all started with making Caramelized Onions.   I experimented with that process by making a batch with honey and another with maple syrup.  Both turned out delicious.  I then decided to mix things up a tad and create some Balsamic Caramelized Onions.  The house smelled heavenly throughout this process.  After all had been said and done, I had 15 cups of caramelized onions on my hands.  Go ahead, bug your eyes out at me. haha

This spread was first creation, which turned out amazing! But we needed something to put it on, besides just eating it off the knife. :)  So, I made Caramelized Onion Crackers.  Those crackers turned out better than imagined and to be honest; they tasted so good on their own that it didn’t any spread on them.

So, I thought to myself… bread!  I need to make a raw bread! Thus, my Caramelized Onion Bread was born.  This became in instant hit, and this spread tasted fantastic on it.  One would think that an onion spread on an onion bread might just be too much onion, but nope.  It was perfect!

This spread is great for dipping veggies in, smearing on your favorite bread or cracker or even as a base to making Caramelized Onion Ice Cream… yep, I said ice cream.  That recipe is to come! :)  So, gather up some onions, and some breath mints and have fun in the kitchen!

Ingredients:

Yields 1 1/2 cups


1 cup cashews,  soak 2+ hours

2 Tbsp marinade liquid, from the caramelized onions

1 tsp balsamic vinegar

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 cup Caramelized Onions; divided


Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soak water.

In a high-speed blender add the cashews, marinade sauce, balsamic vinegar, salt and 1/2 cup of caramelized onions.  Blend until creamy smooth.

Take the remaining 1/2 cup of caramelized onions and rough chop them into small pieces.

Place the batter in a bowl and stir in the onions.

Eat right away or store in the fridge in a sealed container for 5-7 days.

This is excellent for dipping fresh veggies in or slathered on a sandwich.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



