Raw Vegan Hardening Chocolate
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/frosting/hardening-chocolate/



	Hardening Chocolate

													    
    


				Hardening Chocolate
– raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free –

This chocolate is perfect for creating chocolate candies in molds or for dipping sweet treats into it. Below I talk about melting the raw cacao butter, using two different methods; using the dehydrator or double boiler.

I tend to use the dehydrator method.  For this method, you will need a dehydrator that has a large cavity, such as an Excalibur.

Once the chocolate is all mixed up and ready to use, it will be very thin at first.  As it cools, it thickens. You can use it at any stage of viscosity.  If the chocolate gets too thick and hard to deal with, return it to the dehydrator or double boil to melt it back down.

This hardening chocolate won’t be snappy and shiny when dry.  That requires tempering and that is a style that requires practice, patience, and a more detailed technique.

Regardless of which method you choose to use, I highly recommend grating the raw cacao butter into smaller bits.  This will speed up the melting process and it will melt evenly.

Make sure that your maple syrup is at room temperature and don’t let water get into the chocolate at any time throughout the process.  This can cause the chocolate to seize up and get clumpy. I hope you enjoy this simple recipe. blessings, Jamie sue

Ingredients:






1/2 cup (94 g) raw cacao butter, melted

1/2 cup (40 g)  raw cacao powder

2 Tbsp (35 g) maple syrup

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:

Dehydrator method:


You can use a double boiler method or dehydrator method (which is what I used).

I have a 9 tray Excalibur dehydrator which allows me to remove the trays and place bowls in the cavity of it.   It worked perfectly for this recipe.




Shred about 1 cup of raw cacao butter in a 2 cup measuring cup.

You can use a bowl but this way once melted, you can double-check your melted measurement (this just saves dishes).




Place the measuring cup in the dehydrator.  I also place a metal bowl in there to warm the surface of the bowl.

Once the butter is completely melted pour the liquid into the metal bowl.

Whisk the cacao powder in, making sure to work out any lumps.




Add the maple syrup while you continue to whisk, then the pinch of sea salt.

Proceed with making chocolates or covering your sweet treats.

Place the finished treat in the fridge to harden or leave at room temp (as long as the house temp isn’t above 70 degrees).


Double boiler method:


Set up the double boiler and add melt the cacao butter until it is completely melted.

Add the cacao powder, whisking during the process.  Work out any lumps.

Add maple syrup, stirring really well.  Add the pinch of salt and stir.

Proceed with making chocolates or covering your sweet treats.

Place the finished treat in the fridge to harden or leave at room temp (as long as the house temp isn’t above 70 degrees).




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




What is raw cacao powder?

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

For tips on working with raw cacao butter, click (here).







© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



