Caramelized Onion Crackers (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/crackers/caramelized-onion-crackers/



	Caramelized Onion Crackers

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Well good golly miss molly, these turned out sumptuous. Talk about a savory cracker that is full-bodied in flavor and texture!

This is one of those crackers that doesn’t need a spread or any type of topping.  It is divine all by itself.  Of course, the onion flavor is predominant but there is a slight lingering sweetness that brings up the rear from the caramelized onions.  I realize that this cracker takes quite a few steps to create, but it is well worth it.

I like to create recipes that have multiple uses.  If you head over to the post on how to make Caramelized Onions, you will notice that I listed the ingredients needed for a large 5 cups batch or a small  1 2/3 cup batch. What I recommend is that you make a large batch.  You will end up with 5 cups of caramelized onions.

You only need 2 cups for this recipe, unless you want to make a double batch.  But with the leftover onions, you could make my Caramelized Onion Spread which is mouth-watering-amazing on crackers, in wraps, or to use as a dip for veggies.  Or you could make a loaf of Caramelized Onion Bread.

Even putting some of the onions aside to use on your next salad would add a wonderful savory depth of flavor.  But wait there’s more!  The sauce that is created for the marinating process should be saved.  You can thicken it and make a salad dressing too.  Goodness, there are just so many wonderful recipes to be made!

Keep in mind when making these crackers that they won’t dry to a firm, crunchy cracker.  I am pretty sure that this is due to the olive oil used in the recipe.  For one last idea, you could cut this batter into larger squares and create thin bread-like pieces for sandwiches.  I hope you try it and enjoy it!

Ingredients:

Yields 1 tray


1 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1 cup golden flax seeds, ground

1/4 cup cold-pressed olive oil

1/4 cup marinate sauce liquid from the caramelized onions below

3 oz. coconut aminos

2 cups Caramelized Onions, chopped


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the sunflower seeds, and ground flax seeds.  Pulse together until the sunflower seeds break down into small bits.

Add the olive oil, marinate sauce liquid, and aminoes. Process till well combined.

Add the caramelized onions and pulse until the onions are broke down but not turned into a paste.

Update: I have made these many times over and you can either leave the batter a bit chunky or your process to a smooth texture. The current cracker photos are with the batter blended smooth.




Smooth onto teflex sheets about 1/4″ thick, score your cracker/bread desired size with a pizza cutter or knife (press gently, you don’t want to cut your teflex sheet.

I sprinkled black and/or white sesame seeds on top.




Dehydrator at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8-10 hours, turning over and remove the teflex sheet, drying for another 10-12 hours or until dry.

Store in an airtight container for several weeks.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


Right out of the dehydrator and ready to be enjoyed.

Can I offer you one?



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



