Trail Mix Bar - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/bars/long-haul-trail-mix-bar/



	Long Haul Trail Mix Bar

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Yesterday, the Trail Mix Bar came about as I needed to clean out the pantry!  I know the ingredient list may appear to be overwhelming, but trust me, it was easy-peasy to make!

Better yet, it tastes terrific and is packed with nutrients.  I usually wrap each bar in plastic wrap and store in the fridge.  My husband loves to grab one in the morning to take as a snack during the day.

They are also fantastic for hiking trips!  I have a bunch of extra eyeglass cases, so I like to put a bar inside one and throw it in my purse.  It protects the bar beautifully, and it’s the perfect shape.

I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 8 x 6″ pan

Food processor:


1 cup raw almonds, soaked

1 cup raw pecans, soaked

3/4 cup raw walnuts, soaked

1 cup raw  pumpkin seeds or sunflower seeds, soaked

1 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Hand mix:


2 cups gluten-free, rolled oats,  soaked

1 cup coconut flakes

1/2 cup raisins, rehydrated

1/2 cup cranberries, rehydrated

1 cup diced mission figs, rehydrated

1/2 cup raw agave or maple syrup

1 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil


Preparation:


After soaking the nuts, seeds and oats, drain the soak water and rinse them.

Rehydrate the dried fruits in enough warm water to cover them.

Do this step while you are putting the rest of the recipe together.

Rehydrating the dried fruits will soften them, helping them to break down and help as a binder.




In the food processor, fitted with the “S blade, combine the almonds, pecans, walnuts, seeds, cacao, cinnamon, and salt.   Process until the nuts reach a small crumble.

Drain the soaking dried fruits and hand-squeeze the excess water from them before adding them to the other ingredients.

In a large mixing bowl, combine the oats, coconut flakes, raisins, cranberries, figs, sweetener, and coconut oil.

Transfer 1/2 of the batter to the food processor and process until broken down.  Add back to the bowl and mix everything by hand.

Line an 8 x 6″ pan with plastic wrap and press the batter into the pan.  Place in the freezer for 30 minutes.

Remove the pan from the freezer and flip over onto a cutting board.  Cut into bars.  The batter may appear slightly crumbly.  Press the batter firmly, creating a bar shape.

Place the bars on the mesh screen that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F)   for 1 hour,  then reduce to 115 degrees  (F) for an additional 6 hours or so.  The length of time you dehydrate depends on how moist you want them.

Store in a sealed container in the fridge.  Personally, I like to wrap each bar in plastic wrap so we can grab and go!




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is raw cacao powder?

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.











© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



