Refried Beans (unfried-beanless-recipe)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/refried-beans/



	Refried Beans  (unfried-beanless)

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I am a true lover of refried beans, but I had to stop eating them several years ago as my body struggled to digest them properly. Not to mention, eating them raw just isn’t going to cut it, nor is it recommended. Not ALL things are safe to eat in their raw state.

Whenever we go out to a Mexican restaurant, I always sit and stare longingly at them as I gaze upon everybody else’s plates  …ooooh those were the days. Note to self; drooling on the keyboard is not advisable. :)

So as you might have guessed, having a raw and healthy version of refried beans got me pretty darn excited!  I had a large group of taste testers sample this dish, all from different styles of eating;  SAD eaters, vegan, vegetarian, foodies, and so on.  And every single person loved them, including me!

INGREDIENTS

In place of the typical beans used when making refried beans, I used sunflower seeds. It might seem like a stretch but trust me, it works. It takes a symphony of flavors to pull this recipe off and the end result will leave you wanting seconds.

TECHNIQUE

For this recipe, you will be using your food processor. The batter is much too thick for the blender so put the blender carafe down and back away slowly.  Refried beans can be smooth or lumpy  (never crunchy) so, in order to achieve that texture, you will want to be sure to soak the sunflower seeds as well as the sun-dried tomatoes.  This will make them much easier to process into a smoother texture.

I hope you give this recipe a try and please let me know what you think.  Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 3 1/4 cups




2 cups (226 g) raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1 cup (90 g) sun-dried tomatoes, soaked

1 cup (205 g) water, soak water, see #2 below

2 Tbsp (21 g) olive oil

1 Tbsp (8 g) paprika

1 Tbsp (7 g) ground cumin

1 tsp (4 g) onion powder

1 tsp (4 g) garlic powder

1/2 tsp (2 g) cayenne powder

1/2 tsp (4 g) Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:




Sunflower seeds – soak in 4 cups of water for 4+ hours.  Rinse and drain.

Sun-dried tomatoes – soak in 2 cups water for 30+ minutes.  Drain and keep the soak water to add in later.

After soaking the sunflower seeds and sun-dried tomatoes, drain them and place in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.  Process till they start to break down.

Add water, olive oil, paprika, cumin, onion powder, garlic powder, cayenne, and salt.  Process until it is almost smooth but with a little texture, much like refried beans.

Store in airtight container in the fridge for 3-5 days.




		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



