Creamy Kale Dip
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/creamy-kale-dip/



	Creamy Kale Dip

													    
    


				 ~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

While kale is known to be one of the world’s healthiest foods, when its virtues are listed, qualities such as tenderness and sweetness generally aren’t emphasized. That’s why kale is usually cooked, as heat breaks down the plant’s cellular structure, tenderizing it, while turning complex carbohydrates into simple sugars, adding sweetness.

But the heat can also damage the live enzymes found in those leaves. If you wish to enjoy your kale in its raw form, you will need to treat it to a little massage first.

As you administer manual loving trauma (think deep tissue massage) upon the kale leaves, the cellulose architecture (think adhesions)  of the cell walls are crushed, bringing forth those wonderful enzymes and flavor.

Soon you will see that the kale wilts down to a fraction of its former size. Now it is ready to be enjoyed.

This recipe is light, fresh and creamy.  It is also quite versatile too. Use it as a dip, toss it with zucchini noodles for a light salad, or use as a sandwich spread.

Since this recipe makes a hefty amount, you will be able to enjoy it in many different ways throughout the week.  Take care, and have a blessed day, amie sue

Ingredients: 

yields 4 cups



1 large head (195 g) kale, shredded

1 Tbsp lemon juice

1 tsp (7 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/2 cup (70 g) diced red onion


Sauce: 


1 cup (225 g) water

1/3 cup (200 g) fresh-squeezed lemon juice

2 cups raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

2 Tbsp (11 g) nutritional yeast

2 – 4 (4-8 g) garlic cloves

1/2 – 1 tsp (3-7 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup (52 g) organic, cold-pressed olive oil




Preparation:



Wash, remove the stems and chiffonade the kale into small pieces.

Add to a large bowl along with the red onion and salt.

Massage together for several minutes, so the kale starts to break down.

IF you wish, you can shred the kale in a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.




Place the ingredients in the following order into the blender; water, lemon juice, cashews, nutritional yeast, garlic, and salt. Blend until smooth.

Depending on the blender, this can take 1-3 minutes.

Adding the liquid first will help the blades move more freely.




While the blender is running, drizzle in the olive oil until well mixed.

Pour the sauce into the bowl with kale and onion and mix.

Chill for 1-2 hours to increase the dips thickness.

This should keep for 2-3 days in the fridge. I don’t recommend freezing.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



