Parme'nut'san Cheese
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/spreads-cheeses/parmanutsan-cheese/



	Parme’nut’san Cheese

													    
    


				

 raw / vegan / gluten-free

This is a wonderful condiment to have on hand.  One of the staple foods that ought to be found in your fridge!  Not only does it taste amazing on raw marinara sauce, but it is also so delicious sprinkled on a salad too.

The nutritional yeast gives it a classic cheesy flavor, not to mention a great non-dairy alternative.  As you read through the ingredients list, you will notice that I recommend soaking, peeling, and dehydrating the almonds.

If you haven’t put the almonds through this process already, you will need to plan a bit ahead of time if you want to make this recipe.  I have created a habit of soaking and dehydrating my nuts as soon as I walk into the house with them.  That way they are always ready to go when I am.   I pop the skins off to make the “cheese” a lighter color rather than having brown flecks in it.  But you don’t have to.

Ingredients:

yields 2 cups


1 cup nutritional yeast flakes

1 cup raw almonds, soaked, peeled & dehydrated

½ tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Place almonds in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, and process until it resembles a fine powder.  Take care that you don’t over-process as this will release too much of the oil found in the almonds.

Add the nutritional yeast and salt.  Pulse blend it all together.

Store in an air-tight container in the fridge for up to several weeks.

When you run out, make more!


 

Info regarding Red Star Yeast


RED STAR® Nutritional Yeast is NOT brewer’s yeast, a by-product of the brewing industry that has an inferior nutritional profile compared to primary grown yeast and that must be further processed to remove the bitter taste of hops. Many people find that nutritional yeast has a smoother, more “cheesy” taste than brewer’s yeast, which tends to be bitter even after processing. Additionally, because nutritional yeast does not come in contact with barley (like brewer’s yeast), it is gluten-free and safe for people with Celiac disease.

Nutritional yeast is NOT torula yeast, a by-product of paper mill waste streams obtained by growing Pichia jadinii on wood sugars.

Nutritional yeast is NOT dairy yeast, or whey yeast, which is obtained by growing Kluyveromyces marxianus using cheese whey or whey permeate. Therefore, it is safe for people with dairy allergies.

Nutritional yeast is NOT an active baking or brewing yeast. It is an inactive yeast grown expressly for its nutritional components.

Nutritional yeast is NOT a genetically modified organism (GMO), unlike some yeast that is used in baking and beer and wine production.

Red Star nutritional yeast is gluten-free.

Red Star nutritional yeast is allergen-free.


Manufacturing Nutritional Yeast

Step 1: Seeding

All Lesaffre nutritional yeast products start with a pure parent yeast culture of non-genetically modified Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Our technicians prepare the culture in our laboratory following strict quality control procedures. The seed yeast is grown in sterile flasks and then transferred to large stainless steel fermentation tanks, where it will be cultivated.

Step 2: Cultivation

During the cultivation process, Lesaffre precisely controls the temperature, pH, and “diet” of the yeast in order to create the optimal growing conditions. The yeast is “fed” a purified medium of nutrients and air.

Step 3: Harvesting

Once the growing process is complete, the fermented yeast liquid is passed through a centrifuge, which concentrates and thoroughly washes the yeast cells. The resultant product is an off-white liquid called “nutritional yeast cream.”

Step 4: Fortification

The nutritional yeast cream is then pasteurized, which renders the yeast inactive. During this period, vitamins or minerals may be added to enhance the nutritional profile of the yeast.

Step 5: Drying

Finally, the yeast is dried on roller drum dryers and sized. Then, it is ready to ship to customers!

Sourced here

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



