Chunky Eggless Egg Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/chunky-eggless-egg-salad/



	Chunky Eggless Egg Salad

													    
    


				Every recipe has a key ingredient that takes it from being average to over the edge.  From the title of this recipe, you can easily see that I created an egg-free “egg” salad spread.

So, since no eggs were involved what was used to create that eggy taste?  The key ingredient to this eggy success is a salt called “Kala Namak” or “Indian Black Salt” (not to be confused with Hawaiian Black Salt).

So what makes this salt so special?  The sulfur content.  It is composed largely of sodium chloride with several impurities giving the salt it’s color and sulfur smell.    I found a good source for the Indian Black salt here.

Kala Namak, or Indian Black Salt, is a special unrefined mineral salt from Darjeeling, India.  It is a volcanic rock salt mined in central India. The ground salt is not black, but more of a coral pink or pinkish-gray, and has a strong, sulfuric flavor.

I read that in India, Kala Namak is recommended for people with high blood pressure and for those who are on a low-salt diet.  This is because it is lower in sodium and apparently doesn’t increase the sodium content in the blood.  In Ayurvedic medicine, it is also known for soothing intestinal gas, heartburn, indigestion and other digestive problems.

Bob thoroughly enjoyed this salad but thought a diced sweet pickle would be a wonderful addition.  I agree wholeheartedly, but I didn’t have any on hand.  I have been working on a few recipes for a sweet, fermented pickle but I haven’t hit nirvana with it just yet. :)

This eggless “egg” salad is excellent on crackers, raw bread, or a dollop on a bed of greens, perhaps wrap it in Boston Bib Lettuce or … eat it all by itself… spoonful after spoonful.

Ingredients:

yields: 2 1/4cups (633 g)

“Egg” mixture:

1 1/2 cups (197 g) raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours  or 1 ½ cups chopped avocado

1/2 cup (109 g) water

3 Tbsp (40 g) yellow mustard or raw mustard

2 Tbsp (20 g) raw apple cider vinegar

2 tsp (13 g) maple syrup or raw agave nectar

1 tsp (3 g) smoked paprika

1/2 tsp (2 g) onion powder

2 tsp (1 g) dried dill

1/2 tsp (1 g) curry powder

1/2 tsp (1 g) turmeric powder

1 tsp (5 g) Kala Namak (Indian Black Salt) gives egg taste

1/8 tsp (<1 g) ground black pepper


  Mix-ins: (optional – fit to taste)


1 medium (125 g) red bell pepper, diced

2 large (77 g) celery stalk, diced

3 large (45 g) green onion, diced

2 Tbsp (17 g) raw sunflower seeds

black pepper to garnish

smoked paprika

Raw Sweet Bread and Butter Overnight Pickles


Preparation:

“Egg” mixture:


If using cashews; soak, drain, and rinse the cashews before adding to the blender.  If using avocado; peel and remove the seed before adding to the blender.

Add the water, mustard, apple cider vinegar, agave, paprika, onion powder, dill, curry powder, turmeric, Indian Black salt, and pepper.  (Whew, I think I got it all).  Blend until smooth and creamy.

 If you used cashews make sure that the sauce is smooth and doesn’t have any tiny bits of cashews.




Pour into a medium-sized mixing bowl and set aside.



Mix-ins:


Add the bell pepper, celery, green onion, sunflower seeds, and cubed avocado.  Gently fold into the sauce.  Don’t over mash the chunks of avocado.  We want the texture which resembles chunks of egg whites.

When serving garnish with black pepper and smoked paprika.

Enjoy right away or chill for a few hours to give the ingredients time to meld.





		
		
			
				
			
				
				Dice up the veggies.
				
			
				
			
				
				Blend up the “egg” sauce ingredients.
				

			
				
			
				
				Combine the all in a bowl.
				
			
				
			
				
				And enjoy!
				

		


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



