Using Chia Seeds in Raw Recipes
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-ingredients/grains-seeds/chia-seeds-2/



	Chia Seeds

													    
    


				
Chia Seeds
Below I am listing just few health benefits, how chia seeds works and how to use them.  This is just to give you an idea what they are all about… but trust me, there is a lot more information on the net to help you with further research.



Health Benefits


1 ounce of chia seeds contains; Calories 138 / Fat 9 g / Carb 12 g / Fiber 10 g / Protein 4.7 g

High in antioxidants.

Due to their high level of fiber, it doesn’t raise blood sugar. This makes chia a low-carb friendly food.

Chia seeds contain more Omega-3s than salmon, gram for gram.

They are a complete source of protein, providing all the essential amino acids in an easily digestible form. They are also a fabulous source of soluble fiber.

Helps control acid reflux.

High in protein, lipids, & antioxidants.

Slows glucose absorption.


How it works


Like flax, chia is highly ‘hydrophilic’ – the seeds absorb water and create a mucilaginous gel. They can hold 9-12 times their weight in water and they absorb it very rapidly – in under 10 minutes. Soaked chia seeds will appear to contain not seeds or water, but an almost solid gelatin.

Can cause raw breads/crackers to be more of a gray color if you use a higher percentage of chai compared to other flours/ binders.

If you are not able to use flax seeds, you can usually use chia seeds in place of the flax.  Do know that it can affect the end color of your recipe if you use a large amount.

They are neutral in flavor.


How to use


Grind chia seeds, as needed,  to a fine powder to use as a flour.

They can be eaten raw, soaked in any liquid, added to porridges and puddings, or added to baked goods.

Sprinkle or stir them into yogurt.

Due to their ability to absorb both water and fat, they can be used to thicken sauces, soups, porridges, crackers and raw breads.

They can also be mixed with water and turned into a gel.

Chia can be used in many types of recipes – savory and sweet ones. In salad dressings, cookie mixtures, smoothies, crackers, ice creams, juices and many others.

Chia seed protein contains no gluten. This makes it ideal for anyone with a gluten sensitivity or simply wanting to find a replacement for gluten-containing grains like wheat, barley, rye, and oats.


Chia Gel Basic Recipe



Ingredients:


1/3 cup chia seeds

2 cups water


Preparation:


In a mason jar add the seeds and water together. (slightly warm water will form gel faster)

Shake container for 15 seconds, with the lid on.

Let stand for 1 minute and shake again. This mixture (i.e., basic chia gel) will store in the refrigerator for 2 weeks.

You can modify this recipe to suit your needs. For example, you may prefer to grind the seeds (and thereby release the essential fats for better assimilation). Or you may prefer to use more water in order to achieve a less thick gel. Play with the process until you discover what works best for you. In fact, get creative with it!


Notes:


This makes a 6:1 ratio (water to seed), which is an ideal ratio for a basic chia gel.

Experiment with using more or less water, depending on your preference, or the consistency of the food item to which you’re adding it.

It is often recommended a 9:1 ratio (3 cups water for every 1/3 cup chia seeds) to individuals who desire a thinner gel.


How to Use Chia Gel:

Add this mixture up to equal parts by weight to sauces, drinks, yogurt, salad dressings, jams, jellies, salsa, cereals, yogurt, dips, puddings, soups, or other liquid or creamy foods. The gel won’t affect flavor but definitely increases nutritional value.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



