Spicy Taco Bites and Taco Bar
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/spicy-taco-bites-and-taco-bar/



	Spicy Taco Bites and Taco Bar

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

For the love of everything Mexican… I have finally found a way to satisfy my “Mexican-Tooth.”  Yep, some people have a “Sweet-Tooth, ” but I have a “Mexican-Tooth”!   I grew up eating Taco Bell.  Back then, it was a real treat.  I ordered the same thing for the first 20 years of my life… bean burritos, hold the onions and light on the red sauce.  Then a cup of refried beans on the side.

In my adult years, y palette grew a bit more sophisticated as I was exposed to authentic Mexican food.  But to be honest,  I love it all.   This recipe doesn’t have raw-refried beans in it, (that is for another day of creating) but in all reality this Raw Taco Bite,  made my taste-buds do a happy dance.  There was a festa party going on in my mouth!

I have decided to break the component recipes into individual recipe links.  That way you can use the components to make your own creations.   Keep an on eye on this recipe, because I will add other components to the ingredient list as I create them, such as; guacamoles, salsas, wraps (taco shells), “re-fried” beans and who knows what else. :)

If you haven’t tried making the Nacho Chili “Cheese” Corn Chips… I highly recommend that you do.  They add a wonderful depth to this dish!  These taco bites are wonderful for party horsy-dervs, or for those late night snack-attacks, or you can even make a meal out of them.  I hope you enjoy this tasty Mexican treat.

Taco Bar:




Nacho Chili “Cheese” Corn Chips 

Taco “Meat

Chipotle Lime Sauce


Additional Options:


Salsa

Shredded lettuce

Diced onions

Diced avocado

Sliced raw kalamata olives

Sliced cherry tomatoes


 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



