Zucchini "Pasta" Noodles (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/noodle-making-alternatives/zucchini-pasta-noodles-2/



	Zucchini “Pasta” Noodles

													    
    


				Zucchini “Pasta” Noodles
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, alkaline ~

It is on record that there are more than 600 pasta shapes produced worldwide.  TODAY I declare that there are 605!  :)  It is also on record that to cook one billion (1,000,000,000) pounds of pasta, you would need two billion twenty-one million

It is also on record that to cook one billion (1,000,000,000) pounds of pasta, you would need two billion twenty-one million four hundred and fifty-two thousand gallons of water (2,021,452,000) enough to fill nearly seventy-five thousand (75,000) Olympic-size swimming pools.

Now I realize that you probably won’t cook that much, but as a society…. that is A LOT of water is used to cook pasta!  If we could get everyone to switch over to zucchini noodles…well shoot, think about how much water we save.  OK, I realize that converting our world over to zucchini noodles will take some time (haha) but let a girl dream, OK?

National Pasta Month

Did you know that October is National Pasta Month?  That is some time away yet, but I challenge everybody to switch over to zucchini noodles during that month!

When selecting the zucchini at the grocery store, look for organic, firm, and straight ones.  These will feed through the spiralizers much easier.  I like to use green and yellow squashes too.  They add a nice splash of color to any salad or dish made with them.

You can create the noodles with or without the skin. Unless you can’t find organic, then be sure to peel them first. Making veggie noodles never gets old to me. Every time I spiralize them, they put a smile on my face.  I hope they do the same for you. Blessings, amie sue





GEFU Spiralfix Spiral Slicer


Can be used in the left or right hand.

4 different widths of cut for creative recipes: Spiral cut across the entire width of the material, 3 mm, 6 mm, or 12 mm wide adjustable via adjusting wheel

Folding lid for easy filling

Detachable non-slip holding container for safe standing

Material: stainless steel, ABS plastic, SAN

Splash-guard lid with drive unit detachable for easy cleaning. Dishwasher-safe


Spiralizer 7-Blade Vegetable Slicer


This slicer comes with 7 different blades which give you 7 completely different textures and shapes.

Comes with 420 high carbon cutlery grade stainless steel blades, and stronger making it possible to Spiralize harder root vegetables like sweet potatoes and turnips that previously broke Spiralizer handles


Potato Peeler




Wash and peel the outer skin off of the veggie.

Hold the veggie at one end, and in a long stroke motion, run the peeler from top to bottom.

Rotate the veggie in a circular motion and continue peeling until you reach the seeded core (if there is one).  Stop once you reach this.  Don’t throw it away, use it in a smoothie or salad.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



