Raw Sweet Bread and Butter Overnight Pickles
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/condiments/raw-sweet-bread-and-butter-overnight-pickles/



	Sweet Bread and Butter Overnight Pickles

													    
    


				– raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free –

I need you to employ your unique taste buds for this recipe. We all have a range of sweetness and tartness that we find personally pleasing …. so I need you to tailor this recipe to those preferences.

With my mom visiting for this month, I turned to her as my taste tester for this recipe.  I have learned that we both have a bit of sweet tooth, so I used  1/2 cup of agave for these pickles.   I was almost afraid to share them with Bob, guessing that they would be too sweet for him, but he loved them.

When making the brine, start with 1/4 cup of agave and work up from there as needed.  As I researched the SAD (Standard American Diet) recipes for sweet bread and butter pickles, it was common to see people using 2 cups of refined white sugar in a recipe similar to this one.

If you wish to use a different sweetener,  start with small amounts and build up.  Each different sweetener will lend a different flavor.  I chose raw agave because there isn’t a secondary flavor note to it outside of the sweetness.

An example of a sweetener with a secondary flavor note is honey, and each variety of honey will have a taste based on the flower pollen that the bees collected, thus giving the sweetness of the honey a second flavor note.  If you decide to use honey, you will need to really work at whisking it into the brine.  With patience, it will come together just fine.

When I decided to make a raw sweet pickle, I turned to the Internet.  I pulled up about half a dozen recipes to see just what went into making a sweet pickle.  I quickly learned that generally, there is a base foundation of vinegar, tons of white sugar, mustard seeds, celery seeds, turmeric, onions, and oh… cucumbers. :)   In my past few batches of pickles that I made with turmeric, it just…. just…. well, it just didn’t make my taste buds stand up and sing hallelujah.  So, this time around, I omitted it, and it came out perfect.   I hope you enjoy them too!  Just so you know, they keep on getting better with each passing day.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

Ingredients:

Yields 1 quart


4 cups (480 g)  (3mm thick cut ) English Cucumber

1/2 (120 g) white onion, thin sliced

1 cup (225 g) raw apple cider vinegar

1/2 cup (120 g) water

1/2 cup (150 g) raw agave nectar

2 Tbsp (26 g) brown rice vinegar

1 Tbsp ( 14 g) mustard seeds


Preparation:


Wash and dry the cucumber.

With a mandolin, slice into 3 mm thin slices.

If using organic cucumbers, leave the skin on.

If non-organic, it is best to peel the skin off with a potato peeler to cut down on the ingestion of pesticides.

Place in a medium bowl.

Tip: I used English cucumbers because they have fewer seeds in them, which provides a nice crisp pickle!




With the same thin cut on the mandolin, slice 1/2 an onion.  Add the cucumber slices and toss them together.

Pack two jars with equal amounts of pickles.

In a small bowl, combine the vinegar, water, agave, brown rice vinegar, and mustard seeds.  Whisk together.

Pour the brine over the cucumbers and onions, place the lid on the jar and give it a gentle shake.

Keep in the fridge for up to several weeks, but they will be ready to eat within 24 hours.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



