Orangesicle Frosted Chocolate Mousse Parfait
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/pudding-mousse/orangesicle-frosted-chocolate-mousse-parfait/



	Orangesicle Frosted Chocolate Mousse Parfait

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This morning I had some gorgeous avocados that needed to be eaten, far too many to consume in their natural state.  So I decided to whip up a double batch of this chocolate mousse.

I learned a lesson in doing that….two batches will overheat your blender, even a Blendtec!  I quickly split the mousse batter into the two containers that came with the blender and blended them separately.

Shew,  it always makes me nervous when my blender turns off all by itself and flashes “OVERHEATING!”  haha.  It doesn’t happen often, but when it does, my heart races a little bit.  Below I instruct how to use a food processor; you can use either/or…

Anyway,  I had some leftover Vanilla Lemon Frosting (minus the lemon), so I added some natural orange food coloring along with some orange extract to make an orangesicle flavor.  YUM!!  I used a large piping bag and tip to create the beautiful swirls.  It made it really easy to pipe into the glass.

 

Ingredients:

Pudding: Yields 2 cups




1/2 cup packed, Medjool dates, soaked

1/2 cup maple syrup or raw agave nectar

1 tsp vanilla extract

1 1/2 cup mashed avocados, ripe only

3/4 cup raw cacao powder

1/2 cup water


Frosting:


2 cups  cashews, soaked for min. 2 hours

1 1/4 cup coconut milk

1/2 cup raw agave syrup

1 Tbsp vanilla

1/8 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp lecithin powder

1 cup coconut oil, melted

orange extract – to your liking


Preparation:

Pudding:


In your food processor, using the “S” blade,  combine the dates, agave, and vanilla until nice and smooth.

Add the mashed avocados and cacao powder.  Blend until nice and smooth, stopping the processor every once in a while to scrape the sides down.

Add the water and blend until nice and creamy.

The mousse will keep for 3-5 days in the fridge or 2 weeks in the freezer.

Serve chilled or at room temperature.

I piped some Orangesicle frosting in between layers of chocolate mousse.


Frosting:


Add to blender all ingredients except the coconut oil and lecithin.  These will be added at the very end.

Blend until smooth and creamy (3-5 minutes)

While your blender is running, drizzle in the coconut oil and then slowly add the lecithin.  Blend well but don’t over-process.

Frosting will last 5-7 days in the fridge.  Do not freeze as it will change the consistency.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



