Sacha Inchi Seed Butter (vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-ingredients/nut-seed-butters/sacha-inchi-seed-butter/



	Sacha Inchi Seed Butter

													    
    


				

~ vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This seed butter took only 60 seconds to make with the Blendtec Twister jar. Consistency wise, I found this butter to be more on liquidity than most other nut butter.  Flavor-wise… oh baby… peanut butter move over there is a new kid (seed) in town!  Love it!

It’s been about a year since I started making Inchi seed butter. I don’t make it all the time; I try to rotate the nut and seed butters that I make.  Unless I have a specific application that I want to use them in.

I should point out that this isn’t a “raw” recipe.  Inchi seeds are not considered a raw food because they are unpalatable and inedible in their raw state, containing a substance that gives them a bitter taste if they are not heat treated. But personally, I am ok with that.

They are high in Omega-3 fatty acids which benefit practically every part of your body.  One ounce of o these seeds periodically to 7000 mg of Omega 3 exceeding flax seeds which have. 6400 mg.

Let’s back up a tad and briefly list the importance of Omega 3’s:  they can help balance cortisol levels, and in return, this leads to more controlled, food cravings and mood swings. They help reduce the risk of heart disease; they contain every amino acid your body needs to function properly, enhance bone mineral content by helping the body absorb calcium, and promote supple skin and silky hair.

Oddly enough, I think I can taste the Omega 3’s in the seeds.  They have an aftertaste with an itty-bitty-teeny-weeny hint of fish?! Maybe it’s just me.  I have also noticed that this isn’t always the case between different brands. I will say, however, that the suggestion of that flavor quickly fades and I find myself thoroughly enjoying them.  Rather addicting.

On top of that, they also contain Vitamin E, which helps prevent free radical damage that can harm your skin. I love this idea. I used organic Vitamin E oil drops on my skin twice daily. If you are interested in my skincare routine, please comment below and I will do a post on that in the future.

The butter recipe that I created here has a unique, mild, nutty taste that can be compared to that of a dark roasted peanut.  I added nutritional yeast. It gives it that umami-boost in flavor. What exactly is umami? It is considered to be the taste sensation that makes foods savory, complex and intensely flavorful. Just be sure to look for Natural Non-Fortified Nutritional Yeast Flakes.

Nutritional yeast gives us much needed B vitamins. They provide us with energy, help support our brain function, and regulate our metabolism, and even our ability to get a good night’s sleep. Nutritional yeast is rich in several B vitamins such as B1, B2, B3, B5, and B6, all of which have key functions in our bodies and can help you feel your best each day.

Well, it’s time folks… start to get those motors running and making some Inchi seed butter! I hope you have fun in the kitchen today. Please leave a comment below and enjoy. amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 cup


2 cups salted sacha inchi seeds

1 Tbsp nutritional yeast

10 drop liquid NuNatural Stevia


Preparation:

Prepare the seeds:


Soak the seeds and 1/4 tsp salt for 4-8 hours in enough water to cover them.

You can skip this soak and dehydrate process, but this will help to reduce some of the enzyme inhibitors, making them easier to digest.




When they are done soaking, drain, and discard the soak water.

Spread the seeds on the mesh screen that comes with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 4-8 hours, or until dry.  Allow them to cool before using.

Do not use wet seeds when attempting to make butter… no matter what the nut or seed it.





Blend-tec twister jar:


Place the seeds, nutritional yeast and stevia in the blender carafe, place the lid on the jar, ramp the speed up to 6.

Turn Twister lid counterclockwise while blending.

It should only take 30-60 seconds, and you will have a creamy butter!

Taste test to see if you need to add salt.

If you don’t want to use stevia, you can use any other liquid sweetener.  Start with 1-2 Tbsp and taste test.




I store my butters in the fridge to extend the shelf life and to avoid the nuts from going rancid.


Vitamix blender with tamper:


Place the seeds, nutritional yeast, and stevia in the blender, and secure the lid.

Turn machine on and slowly increase speed to variable 10, then to High, use the tamper to push the ingredients into the blades.

Within a minute, you will start to hear a high pitched chugging sound. Once the butter begins to flow freely through the blades, the motor sound will change from a high pitch to a low laboring sound. Your butter should be ready.

Inchi seeds blend quicker than any other seed that I have made a butter from.





Standard Blender:


Place the seeds, nutritional yeast, and stevia in the blender, place the lid on the jar, turn the machine on and quickly work up to high.  Stop the machine every so often to scrape the butter batter into the blades.  Blend until creamy smooth.

It will take a little more work and time to use a standard blender, but it can be done.


Food processor:


Place the seeds, nutritional yeast, and stevia in the food processor that is fitted with the “S” blade.  Process until creamy.

Stop the machine periodically to scrape down the sides of the bowl,  just to keep everything blending evenly.

It will more a challenge to produce a creamy texture in a food processor.






		
		
			
				
			
				
				Soaked and strained…

				
			
				
			
				
				Blended for 30 seconds…
				

			
				
			
				
				Instant butter.
				
			
				
			
				
				Smooth and Creamy.
				

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



