Raw Country Living Banana Bread
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/artisan-breads/raw-country-living-banana-bread/



	Country Living Banana Bread

													    
    


				Country Living Banana Bread
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Craving a little down-home comfort? Satisfy your soul with this wholesome, cake-like Country Living Banana Bread.

When I took my first bite, fresh from the dehydrator, it felt like I’d just received the warmest, most comforting hug from my mama. For a brief, blissful moment, the noise of the day faded into the background. Peace swept over me, a smile tugged at my lips, and a little tune bubbled up in my throat…

I was so relaxed—maybe too relaxed—that my muscles gave way just enough to let the tray of banana bread slices slip from my hands. In an instant, I snapped out of my bread-induced zen and activated my stealthy, ninja-like reflexes. I lunged for the tray. It slammed against the fridge, ricocheted upward with gusto, and—gracefully, miraculously—landed on the kitchen island like a baseball player sliding into home base after hitting a grand slam.

SAFE!

Yes, friends, these are the sorts of “kitchen mishaps” (aka: mild catastrophes) that happen around here. But honestly? Life in the kitchen would be a little too quiet without them. So embrace the chaos, regain your composure, brush the almond flour off your shirt, and smile like nobody’s watching.

Now, go have fun in the kitchen. And enjoy every bite! blessings, amie sue



Ingredients:

1 loaf

Dry Ingredients:


1 cup rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 cup ground flax seeds

2 Tbsp psyllium husks

2 tsp  ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Wet Ingredients:


2 cups packed, moist almond pulp

2 cups mashed bananas

1/4 cup date paste

3 Tbsp maple syrup

1 tsp vanilla extract

1 cup raisins

1/2 cup chopped raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated

1 cup diced banana chunks


Preparation:


In the food processor fitted with the “S” blade, place the following ingredients: oats, flax meal, psyllium, cinnamon, and salt.

Pulse together until combined.

Place the dry ingredients in a large bowl.




Add to the bowl the nut pulp, mashed banana, date paste, sweetener, vanilla, raisins, and chopped walnuts. Hold off on adding the diced banana chunks.

With your hands blend till everything is well incorporated.




Add the banana chunks and gently mix.

I didn’t want you to add them in #2 because they would have turned to pure mush.  I want the chunks to remain in the bread.




Shape into a loaf and place on the mesh sheet that comes with your dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1-2 hours to create an outer crust.

Remove from the dehydrator, place the loaf on a cutting board, and slice pieces to the desired thickness.

I did mine at about 1/2″.

Return the bread to the mesh sheet laying the pieces flat.




Decrease the temperature to 115 degrees (F) and continue to dehydrate for about 6 hours.

As an indicator, if it is dry enough, touch the center of the bread slices.

You don’t want it to be doughy, but you also don’t want the bread to dry out too much.

You decide on how dry you want the end result to be.




Shelf life and storage:  My recommendation would be to store this bread in an air-tight container and the fridge for 3-5 days.  The more moisture that is left in your bread, the shorter the shelf life.  Therefore, shelf life will vary with your drying technique.  Whenever I make this bread, it never lasts very long enough to spoil.   Keep in mind, the whole purpose of eating a raw diet is to eat foods at their peak of freshness, so don’t expect this bread to have a long shelf life.

To warm the bread before eating,  place it in the dehydrator set at 145 degrees for 5-10 minutes.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt, and does it matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).

How does psyllium work in a recipe? Learn more (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



