Raw Cranberry and Macadamia Chunky Granola
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/granola/cranberry-macadamia-chunky-granola/



	Cranberry and Macadamia Chunky Granola

													    
    


				
~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This granola turned out so wonderfully mouth-watering.  With Bob’s first taste, he shrugged his shoulders and said that it was, “ok.”  I was flabbergasted, to be honest.  I thought it was amazing!  Later that day, I found him enjoying fistfuls and he admitted that it was “REALLY YUMMY.”   This did my heart good… there is nothing like pleasing the love of your life.  :)




I used macadamia nuts in two forms; ground and rough chopped.  This leads to a buttery flavored base and a crunchy texture.   We know about layering flavors with ingredients, but now it’s time to explore layering with “texture techniques.”




Granolas, to me, are one of those foods can get muddled up with too many flavors.  If your not careful you lose clarity.  So to get brighter, truer flavors, try to remove some of those flavor layers and use this technique to enhance the core ingredients.  With this recipe, I am showing you a very simple approach to this method with the macadamia nuts, again by using them in two different forms.




Macadamia nuts are high in fat which makes them susceptible to over-processing, which causes their natural oils to release and can make your batter very greasy.  To help prevent this, I use frozen mac nuts!   I also store them frozen which prevents them from going rancid.  I have a little trick up my apron that I use when I process nuts in the food processor.  I listen, rather than using my eyes.  When I hit the start button, it sounds like a rock tumbler, then as they start to break down it turns into a steady hum of the food processor.  This is when I stop and check my progress, and it is usually spot on.




I hope that by sharing these tiny techniques, you will build your confidence in the kitchen when it comes to creating whole food health!  Many blessings!

Ingredients:

Yields 7 1/2 cups dried granola



1 cup raw macadamia nuts, soaked & dehydrated

1/4 tsp sea salt

1 1/4 cups rolled, gluten-free oats, soaked & dehydrated

1 Tbsp ground flaxseed

1/2 cup chopped dried cranberries

1/2 cup chopped raw macadamia nuts

1/4 cup cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1/4 cup raw coconut nectar

1/4 cup water

1 Tbsp pure vanilla extract

1/4 tsp liquid stevia



 Preparation:



Place 1 cup macadamia nuts and salt in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade.   Process until it reaches a small crumble.  Pour into a large bowl.  Be careful that you don’t over-process the macadamia nuts.  They are high in healthy fats, and oily granola is not our end goal here.  Place in a large bowl.

Add the oats, flax meal, cranberries, 1/2 cup macadamia nuts, and toss everything together.

Add the coconut oil, coconut nectar, water, vanilla, and stevia.  Mix well.  I used my hands (this is my common practice).

Spread the batter on two teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator.  You can use parchment paper if you don’t have the teflex sheets.

Dry at 115 degrees (F) for 8-10 hours or until dry.

Store in an airtight container for 5-7 days or in the freezer for 1-3 months.



Substitutions:



Macadamia nuts ~ If you don’t like macadamia nuts and you stuck around long enough to read all of this… try using your favorite nut in place of it! :)

Flax meal ~ In place of flax, try chia seeds.  I added this for the health benefit.

Cranberries ~ Replace the cranberries with any other dried fruit if desired.

Coconut nectar ~ You can use maple syrup, or any other liquid sweetener that you enjoy using.

Liquid stevia ~  You can omit this altogether.  I added it to elevate the sweetness without adding in more “sugars.”   This granola is not very sweet, but then you can tailor it to your tastes.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



