Sun-Dried Tomato Hummus (no beans or nuts!) - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/dressings-dips/smoked-paprika-and-sun-dried-tomato-hummus/



	Smoked Paprika and Sun-Dried Tomato Hummus

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Smoked Paprika and Sun-Dried Tomato Hummus is full of robust flavors.  The main flavor that really shines through is the smoked paprika.  Keep in mind that not all paprikas are the same.  Some are sweet, some are spicy and some are smoky!

For this recipe, I used a Spanish Smoked Sweet Paprika which is also known as Pimenton de la Vera, Dulce.  I love the way that sounds… Pimenton de la Vera, Dulce and Sun-Dried Tomato Hummus.

Spanish sweet peppers are slowly dried in the sun then smoked over an oak burning fire for several weeks.  The results impart an unbelievably rich and smokey flavor. The resulting smokey-sweet powder can be put on pretty much anything demanding a warm, complex flavor profile.  My hummus is one those.

I didn’t grow up eating hummus but I am thankful that it found its way into my life.  This recipe is wonderful as a veggie dip,  a spread for crackers or even as a great mayonnaise replacement on a sandwich.    You could even thin some of it out with a little nut milk and wa-la!  A perfect salad dressing.

Update: I have tested this recipe with canned chickpeas and at the time, doing it in a blender versus the food processor.  The texture is much heavier and creamier. I had to add about 1/3 cup of the sun-dried tomato soak water to get it to blend nicely. Other than that, it turned out wonderful.  It’s always good to have options so I thought it was good to share. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:  

Yields 2 1/2 cups


2 cups diced zucchini, peeled (2 medium)

1-2 small cloves garlic

3 Tbsp lemon juice

1/2 cup tahini

1/2 cup sun-dried tomatoes, rehydrated

1 tsp smoked paprika

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup cold pressed olive oil


Preparation:


Do not use sun-dried tomatoes that are packed in oil.  If the dried tomatoes that you are very dry and tough, rehydrate in enough hot water to cover them.

Allow them to soak for 15 minutes.

Once done soaking, drain the soak water and squeeze out any excess water.




In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the zucchini, garlic, lemon juice, tahini, sun-dried tomatoes, paprika, and salt.  Process until smooth.

Start with 1 garlic clove.  Every clove can taste different (stronger or weaker) so better to build up in taste because once they are in there… you are committed.




While the machine is running, drizzle the olive oil in through the chute.  Process just until everything is well incorporated.

Place in a serving bowl and sprinkle a pinch of paprika on top before serving.

Keeps for 2-3 days in the fridge.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



