Sacha Inchi Seed Milk (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/sacha-inchi-seed-milk/



	Sacha Inchi Seed Milk

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This milk has an earthy, nutty flavor… almost peanutty in taste. Peanutty? Is that a word? Well, whether it is or isn’t, I am using it.  I will say that it creates thinner milk though, but that can be remedied somewhat by cutting down the seed to water ratio or by adding some lecithin or coconut butter.

So, what is a Sacha Inchi seed? First, off they look like a nut, but they are actually a seed. They taste like a nut (peanut), but they are a seed. Have I mentioned that they are a seed? :) Just wanted to make that clear.

Rich in Omega 3

They are one of the richest plant-based sources of Omega-3. Ounce for ounce, these amazing superfood seeds boast 17 times more Omega-3 than wild Sockeye salmon. Please read more about them (here).  They are also loaded with protein, fiber, and antioxidants.

I will be honest; the seeds had to grow on me a little bit. When I first tried them, I liked them but wasn’t 100% sold on them. But then the more I read about their nutritional value, the better they started to taste to me. Soon, I realized that the taste is actually rather addicting.

Milk Bottle Love!

I couldn’t help but take a moment to point out my “new” milk bottle.  It’s an antique that I picked up at a garage sale last month.  Many of you know that I have a jar addiction… well you might as well add milk bottles to the list.  There is just something so charming to me about them.  It didn’t hurt that it Hehe in red letters which is my favorite color. hehe  All around, this bottle was just meant for me. Do you ogle over milk bottles as I do? I would love to hear that I am not alone in this.  :)

Well, it’s time to scoot and move on to the recipe.  This one is super easy to make so, please, don’t get scared off by the length of my “preparation” section below. I like to be thorough on every one of my recipes. I know many of you are veterans of this lifestyle, but I also know that many of you are new, and I just want to make sure that you learn a lot of neat things. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1 cup sacha inchi seeds soaked for 8 hours

2 cups water

Sweetener of choice to taste

1 tsp vanilla extract

Pinch Himalayan salt

1 Tbsp powdered sunflower lecithin



Preparation:

Soaking process:


Place the seeds in a glass bowl or stainless steel bowl and cover with two cups of water.

Do not use plastic bowls for soaking.

Always make sure you add enough water to keep the seeds covered, as they absorb water, they plump up.

Keep the bowl at room temperature and cover with a breathable cloth. If something comes up and you won’t be able to use the nuts within the 24 hour period, store them in the fridge, changing the water 2x a day.




Add 1/4 tsp of Himalayan pink salt; this helps activate enzymes that in turn deactivate the enzyme inhibitors.

Soak for 8 hours.

This is great not only for reducing phytic acid but also softens the seeds, making them easier to blend into a smooth, silky texture.





Blending process:


Once the seeds are done soaking, drain, rinse, and discard the soak water.

Do not reuse the soak water for the milk-making process.  This is full of the phytic acid/enzyme inhibitors that were drawn out during the soaking process.




Place the seeds in a high-powered blender along with the water.

Start the blender on low and work up to high, then blend for 30-60 seconds or until they have been pulverized.

A high-powered blender will accomplish the job much easier.

If you don’t own one such as a Vitamix or Blendtec, you might have to blend for 1-2 minutes.

Do not sweeten or add flavorings until you have strained the milk from the pulp.





Straining the milk:



Turn the bag inside out and keep seams on the outside for easier straining, cleaning, and faster drying.

Place the nut milk bag in the center of a large bowl.

Instead of a nut bag, you can drape cheesecloth over the edges of the bowl and pour the milk through it.  I find this process messier, and it doesn’t seem to filter it as well.

Desperate?  Don’t have a nut bag or cheesecloth while you are vacationing in France?  Take off one of those silky-French knee-high nylons, wash it, and pour the milk through it.  I am here, always thinking for you. :)




With one hand holding the nut bag, pour the milk into the bag.  Lift the bag, and the milk will start to flow through the mesh holes in the bag.  The finer the mesh, the more filtered the milk will be.

Gather the nut bag (or cheesecloth) around the almond meal and twist close.

Squeeze the pulp with your hand to extract as much milk as possible.

Do not toss the pulp.  Freeze or dehydrate it, which can be used in other recipes such as smoothies, crusts, cookies, crackers, cakes, or raw breads.



Flavoring:


I recommend flavoring your milk after the pulp has been removed.  That way the pulp remains neutral in flavor for other recipes.

Liquid sweeteners: you can sweeten nuts milks with the sweetener of your choice.  Start with 1 tsp and build up.  For a sugar-free option, use NuNaturals liquid stevia.

Dried fruit:  Medjool dates add a wonderful caramel-like flavor to nut milks.  You might which to run it back through to the nut bag to filter any small bits out.  You can use all sorts of fresh or dried fruits for this.

Spices: To liven things us, add cinnamon, cloves, cardamom, pumpkin spice… you name it.

Extracts:  vanilla, or any other flavoring.

Raw cacao powder

Add 1 Tbsp coconut butter (for a creamy texture)


Thickeners and Emulsifiers:



Lecithin – thickener and emulsifier

Add up to 1 Tbsp per every 2-3 cups of water used.

I highly recommend sunflower over soy lecithin.




Coconut butter/manna

Add up to 1 Tbsp per every 2-3 cups of water used.

Do not use coconut oil.  It hardens when chilled and may create small gritty pieces in the milk




Nut butters:

Add up to 1 Tbsp per every 2-3 cups of water used

If using store-bought, watch for added ingredients such as salt.






 Storing and expiration:


Store the milk in an airtight glass container such as a mason jar.

Always label the contents and the date that it was made.

If for some reason separation still does occur, just shake the jar before serving, and the milk will come back together.




Fridge – The milk can last anywhere from 3-5 days in the fridge.

If the nut milk prematurely sours it may be from an unclean blender, nut milk bag, or poor quality nuts.




Freezer – There are several ways to store nut milks in the freezer.  Freeze for up to 3 months.

Pour the milk into ice cubes trays and freeze.  This is great for plopping into smoothies.

Freeze in 1 1/2 pint freezer-safe jars.

It is important that you only freeze glass jars that are made for freezing.  I have tested this and sure enough, I have had jars crack on me, resulting in throwing everything in the trash.  Sad day.

You can use smaller jars for better portion control if you don’t plan on using a full 1 1/2 pints worth.

Pay attention to the “maximum freeze line” indicated on the jar.  If you don’t see that, then it’s another indicator that the jar isn’t safe to place in the freezer.





Nut bag maintenance:



It is important to keep the nut milk bag clean!

Wash with organic, scent-free soap, such Dr Bronners.  Do not use laundry soap. (always refer to the manufactures cleaning method as well)

Rinse well air dry. Ideally in the direct sun to receive free sterilizing from the warm rays.  Nylon nut milk bags should not be placed in the sun as the ultraviolet rays can damage the nylon.

Do not hang the bags outside on the clothesline to dry.  We don’t want an air-raid of bird poop coming down on it.

Proper bag storage –

I like to roll mine up and store them in a glass jar. This will help keep it clean, protect it from dust, and accidental hole damage. A holy bag has no purpose when it comes to nut milk making.

Also, if you use nut bags for multiple reasons, it would be a good idea to store them in separate jars, labeling them for their purpose, such as; nut milks, juicing, sprouting.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



