Pecans, Soaking and Drying
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-techniques/soaking-nuts-seeds-and-grains/pecans-soaking-and-drying/



	Pecans | Soaking and Drying

													    
    


				

Pecans, Soaking and Drying
Pecans can lend a burst of rich, sweet and buttery flavor to raw recipes… or even cooked dishes if that is your thing.  Their big size and meaty texture make them the perfect nut for spiced nuts (great snack), and they’re delicious in green salads (great texture against the lettuce.)



Always look for plump pecans that are uniform in color and size. I know many people are in favor of purchasing nuts and seeds from bulk bins, but personally, I am not a fan.  You have no idea how long they have been there.  They might not be fresh or free of molds since they have been constantly exposed to air and fingers of the passing by taste-testers…. you know who you are. hehe

Pecans for Colon Health!

The fiber contained in pecans promotes colon health and facilitates regular bowel movements. It enables the colon to work at greater levels of efficiency by cleaning out the gastrointestinal system. When things are “running smoothly” it prevents constipation and hemorrhoids.  I know, I am getting edgy here, I said the “H” word!

If you struggle with constipation, it can be brought on by endless possibilities.  I am not here to say that pecans will rid you of this issue, but enjoying them can’t hurt anything, can it?  I suppose if you have GI issues such as diverticulitis… and that my friends are a whole other mixed bag of nuts.  I have done quite a bit of reading and the verdict is still out if nuts/seeds aggravate the situation.  The bottom line is that decisions about diet should be made based on what works best for you.




Why must we go through all this trouble? I find soaking nuts a very important step when it comes to my digestion. When nuts/seeds are soaked and/or sprouted in water, the germination process begins, in which the active and readily available amounts of enzymes, vitamins, minerals, proteins, and essential fatty acids begin to be activated. 


Nuts and seeds contain phytic acid and enzymes inhibitors which make it quite hard on the stomach and digestion. This simple process can make all the difference in how you feel after consuming them and how your body assimilates them. To read more about the importance of why our bodies benefit from soaking nuts and seeds, click (here).  And lastly, if you are wondering how to make pecan flour, please click (here) to learn how. Enjoy!


Ingredients:


4 cups raw pecans, shelled

1 Tbsp Himalayan pink salt

8 cups water


Preparation:

Soaking:


Place the pecans and salt in a large glass or stainless steel bowl along with 8 cups of water.

The pecans will swell during the soaking process, so you want enough water to keep them covered.




Leave them on the counter to soak for 4-8 hours.

Loosely cover with a clean cloth, this allows the contents of the bowl to breathe.

If you think that it will be longer than 8 hours before you can get to them, place the bowl in the fridge, making sure to change the water every so often.




After they are done soaking, drain and rinse in a colander.




Dehydrator method:


Spread the pecans on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Keep them in a single layer and dry them at 115 degrees (F) until they are thoroughly dry and crisp.  Make sure the nuts are completely dry.  If not, they could mold, plus they won’t have that crunchy, yummy texture you expect from nuts and seeds.

The dry time will vary due to the machine you own, the type of climate you live in and how full your dehydrator is when drying them.

Expect anywhere from 6 + hours.




Allow them to cool to room temperature before storing.

Store in airtight containers such as mason jars.

Use within a month – store in the panty.

Use within 3-6 months – stored in the fridge

Use within 6-12 months – stored in the freezer.






Oven method: (no longer raw)



Preheat the oven to 325 degrees (F).

Spread the pecans on an ungreased cookie sheet in a single layer.

Roasting nuts with a touch of oil is a really nice way to add flavor and crispness.  This approach is great when using them as a snack or sprinkled on top of salads.

Dry roast the pecans if you plan on using them in recipes where they take the place of  “flour.”

I don’t recommend roasting chopped pecans because they might burn.




Bake for 10-12 minutes.

Don’t leave them unattended, due to their high oil content, they will continue to roast after you remove them from the oven.

When toasted correctly they taste toasted, not bitter or burnt.

Good idea to stir them around a bit throughout the process.




Cool for about 1 hour.   Make sure that they are cool before storing.

Note ~  You can also attempt to dry the nuts in the oven and keep them raw but this is tricky.  You will need to set the oven on the lowest setting, keep the door ajar and hang a thermometer in the oven to watch the temperature.  Nothing is impossible.  With this method… good luck and do your best.


Do soaked nuts and seeds have to be dehydrated?

If you are unable to dry the nuts or seeds, it is best to only soak an amount that you can be sure will used within two or three days. As with any live food, mold tends to set in within days if you’re not careful. They will need to be stored in water, sealed tight and placed in the fridge.  It is important to rinse them twice a day with fresh water.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



