- Frosting 101 - Choosing the Right Frosting
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/frosting/



	– Frosting 101 –  Choosing the Right Frosting

													    
    


				It’s important to understand how raw frostings work. That way you can create successful as well as delicious and nutritious desserts. Different types of frostings and icings have slightly different flavor and texture profiles that lend them to various applications.

I created this post as a quick reference when you are looking for the right frosting for the right job.  As we all know, not all frostings are alike. And we also are aware (or may not be) that raw ingredients work differently then cooked ingredients.  Growing up I relied on the fact that if I needed a frosting, I just needed to hop in the car, and motor on down the road to the local grocery store. I would then seek out the baking aisle and make my selection from the multitude of flavors on the shelf. Loaded with tons of sugar and preservatives, but, they were very convenient.

But since our goal is to get away from processed foods, we land here.  Some frostings hold shape, some drip, some harden, and some stay soft. They are all wonderful in their own place and time.  Here I will help explain the differences, when to use them and what to expect. Keep in mind that everything I share below is based on the recipes that I have created here on my site.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			

		



Consistency:


Great for piping swirls, lines, writing, and other decorative shapes on top of cakes and cupcakes.


Durability:


This frosting will withstand sitting at room temperature for hours (tested at 70 degrees F), but for freshness is it best to refrigerate when you’re not enjoying the dessert.

This is a great type of frosting to use in layered cakes.

Shelf-life: about 3-5 days. Maybe longer.

Freeze: Yes, but there is a sweet spot during the thawing stage as to when it is best to use.  Keep testing it as it is thawing for manageability. Freeze for up to 1 month.


Frosting recipe ideas:


Basic White Cake Frosting

Cashew Cinnamon Maple Frosting

Espresso Buttercream Frosting

Lemon Vanilla Frosting

Milk Chocolate Cake Frosting

Pretty in Pink Frosting


Recommend recipes:


Spiced Chocolate Bouchons with Espresso Soaked Raisins

Chocolate Chip and Espresso Buttercream Sandwich Cookie

Cherry Chip Layer Cake

Coconut Raspberry Lemon Cake

Cinnamon Cream filled Hot Cinnamon Tea Cupcake




Raw cream cheese frosting is created by culturing it with probiotics. This process increases the gut-healing nutrients and gives the frosting that distinctive tang which carrot cake and red velvet cake enthusiasts are very familiar with.

Consistency:


Perfect for piping swirls, lines, writing, and other decorative shapes on top of cakes and cupcakes.


Durability:


The culturing process can be done to several types of frosting, whether firm or soft.  Below, I will list which frosting recipes I recommend for culturing.

If the frosting is exposed to warm room air for an extended period, it can increase the “sourness” of the culture. In the fridge, it will almost come to a stop but will still continue to culture at a very slow rate.

Shelf-life: about 5-7 days.

Freeze: Yes, it can be frozen, but it will cause some of the benefits of probiotics to die off.  Freeze up to 1 month.


Frosting recipes to culture:


Any of my frosting recipes can be cultured.  I will be providing a cultured base frosting soon.


Recommend recipes to use on:


Red Velvet Cake

Carrot Cake with Pumpkin Spice Frosting



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			

		



This style of frosting is best for desserts that you plan on serving sooner than later. It is more airy and light in nature.  Best to use as needed.

Consistency:


  Light and airy. More on the fluffy side, then dense in texture.


Durability:


Whipped frosting makes a great frosting for many types of desserts, especially those that are designed to be served cold.

It is more fragile, so it should ideally be consumed immediately or keep the dessert stored in the refrigerator.

Not the best for frosting sides of cake, best to pipe or spoon onto desserts like fluffy clouds.

Shelf-life: about 2-4 days

Freeze: not recommend due to the shift in  texture


Frosting recipe:


Coconut Orange Whipped Cream Frosting

Cinnamon Vanilla Bean Frosting

Delicate Vanilla Frosting

Ruby Valentine Frosting

Vanilla Frosting

Velvety Honey Pear Frosting

Whipped Vanilla Coconut Cream Frosting


Recommend recipes to use on:


Orangesicle Frosted Chocolate Mousse Parfait

Minced Pie

Hazelnut Pear Cake with Velvety Honey Pear Frosting

Cuddly Brown Bear Cupcakes with Orange Blossom Frosting

For more ideas click (here).



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			

		



These frostings are based on dates.  I refer to them as instant frostings because they don’t contain cashews (which require lead time for soaking).  This creates a frosting that can withstand room temperatures.  They typically don’t require very many ingredients and are extremely quick and easy to use.

Consistency:


It is very thick but the texture shifts depending on if you thin it with water.

A thinned out version is perfect for pouring over a dessert where you want it to drip down the edges lazily.

It can be used to dip fruits and other sweet treats in, fondue style.

Once chilled, it can even be piped onto cakes and desserts for decoration.

Frozen: it doesn’t freeze!  It gets firm but never freezes solid.


Durability:


It can withstand sitting at room temp for a long time.

Freezes perfectly. It won’t freeze solid, so you can make it up ahead of time, store in the freezer, remove when needed and frost right away.

Chilled Shelf-life: about 7-14 days.

Freeze: yes – up to 12 months.


Instant frosting recipes:


Caramel Sauce Frosting

Cinnamon Date Frosting

Pecan Caramel Sauce / Frosting


Recommend recipes using date paste:


Caramel Apples – I use the Caramel Sauce Frosting for these.

For more ideas click (here).





Pronounced guh-nahsh. If you like chocolate, you will love ganache frosting. Ganache can be used in many different ways; as a frosting, filling, or even as a fondue.

Consistency:


Ganache is very thick but the consistency shifts depending on if it is cold or warm.

Warm, like right after you make it, has a pourable consistency.  This is perfect for pouring over a dessert where you want it to drip down the edges lazily.  When warm it can be used to dip fruits and other sweet treats in, fondue style. When warm, it’s also perfect for dipping the tops of donuts into.

Once chilled, it can even be piped onto cakes and desserts for decoration.

Cold: After it has been in the fridge, it will firm up which makes it great to frost a cake with.

Frozen: it doesn’t freeze!  It gets firm but never freezes solid. Great to use frozen to create truffle centers out of.


Durability:


It can withstand sitting at room temp for a long time.  We keep our house at 70 degrees (F) or lower so I can’t speak for really warm temperatures, other than I am sure it will start to slide.

Once it sets, it turns glossy which is a great decorating feature.

Shelf-life: about 7-14 days.

Freeze: yes – up to 1 month


Ganache recipe:


Chocolate Ganache


Recommend recipes using ganache:


Chocolate Lava Cake – used as a dripping chocolate coating

Chocolate Peanut Butter Buckeye Cake – piped on the cake for decoration.

Flourless Chocolate Cake with Ganache Frosting – used a glossy frosting covering the whole cake.

Chocolate Ganache Filled Cupcakes with Espresso Frosting – used a filling inside of the cupcake.

For more ideas click (here).



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		



A glaze is typically made with confectioners’ sugar with a small amount of liquid added.  Of course, we won’t be using that here. It can be quite liquid or thicker, like a syrup, depending on the ratio of ingredients to liquid. It is often used as a drizzle, for instance, on top of a quick bread, scones, and doughnuts.

Consistency:


This icing is creamy, melt in your mouth good.  With that said, I did frost with some, and the icing held up perfectly in the fridge.


Durability:


Icing does not firm up hard so this recipe is perfect for those desserts that you want to dress up right before serving.

Glaze recipes tend to be dry to the touch but still soft.  Do not stack desserts (cookies, doughnuts) on top of one another or they will stick.

You can create thick or thin glazes or icings, depending on the ratio of liquid to the rest of the ingredients.

Shelf-life: about 3-5 days.

Freeze: No, not recommended.


Icing recipe:


Homestyle Vanilla Bean Icing

Lemon Coconut Cream Icing

Maple Pumpkin Butter Spread


Recommend recipes to use on:


Buttery Walnut Carrot Cake Bars

Carrot Apricot Scones.

Pineapple Orange Mango Ice Cream

Perfect drizzled over thick slices of sweet raw bread.

Apple Streusel Coffee Bars

Meyer Lemon Poppy Seed Scones with Glaze

For more ideas click (here).



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		



This is a pure white icing that dries to a smooth, hard, matte finish.  It is typically made with egg whites and icing sugar. Not mine, let’s go vegan.

Consistency:


Once made and placed on the dessert, place in the fridge or freezer to firm up the icing.

It will remain hard at room temperature…. up to about 76 degrees (F).

If the room temperature is cool enough, I have stacked cookies with this icing on it with great success.


Durability:


Holds up well at room temperature.

Shelf-life: about 5-7 days.

Freeze: Only recommend freezing once on the dessert.


Icing recipe:


One ingredient: softened raw coconut butter (additional flavors can be added)


Recommend recipes to use on:


Mince Pie Cookies

Cardamon Orange Hazelnut Biscuit with Orange Butter Glaze



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		



I consider raw marzipan to be the new raw fondant.  It creates a moldable texture that can be used to either cover a cake or create decorative shapes.  If you are used to fondant, don’t expect raw marzipan to behave exactly like it does.  Remember, we are still working with fresh ingredients, not ingredients found on commercial fondant that has a shelf life of years! Can we say processed?

Consistency:


Feels and behaves like a dense play-dough.

Thick, dough-like, which can be used to mold into shapes.


Durability:


Holds up to room temperature.

Shelf-life: about 5-7 days for freshness if chilled.

Freeze: Freezes well. Use within a month.


Marzipan recipe:


Can be found within this recipe: Tree of Life Cake


Recommend recipes to use on:


Tree of Life Cake

Hazelnut Pear Cake with Velvety Honey Pear Frosting


Additional Frosting Tips:


How to frost a cake.  Click here.

How much frosting is needed for a cake? Click here.

For ideas on how to color frostings naturally, click (here).


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



