Chili Corn Crackers
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/crackers/chili-corn-crackers/



	Chili Corn Crackers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

My love for corn chips and crackers, sort of morphed into one with this recipe.  These crackers have a hearty corn flavor with a lingering chili spice that leaves you wanting more.  I made them with almond pulp which made the cracker strong, crunchy and airy.  How is that for a description?!

Recipe Inspiration

The inspiration for recipes can hit me at any time.  It never takes the time or place into consideration.  And when it hits me, I listen… I stop and write.

You can find oodles of recipes written on napkins, old receipts in my purse, on my computer… I even once wrote a recipe out on the back of a prescription that I had to get filled. DOH!!!  I lost that recipe. lol

Anyway, this recipe hit me while I was slooooowly perusing the aisles of Hobby Lobby. :)  Looking high, looking low, my eyes fell upon some plastic corn in the Spring section.  That is all it took.  I knelt down, found a scrap of paper in my purse and starting jotting down a recipe.  It went something like below…

Ingredients:

Yields 128 crackers


1 cup raw almonds, soaked & dehydrated

1 1/2 cups chili corn nibblers

1 cup ground flaxseed

1 1/2  tsp chili powder

1 1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp cayenne powder



6 cups packed, moist almond pulp

2 cups water

2 Tbsp maple syrup

2 Tbsp lemon juice (1 lemon)


Shaker topping:


1/2 cup chili corn nibblers

1 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 – 1/2 tsp chili powder


Preparation:


In the food processor, fitted with the”S” blade, combine the almonds, 1 cup dried corn, ground flax, chili powder, salt and cayenne powder. Process until the almonds are broken down to a small crumble.

Remove the lid and add the almond pulp, water, maple syrup and lemon juice.  Blend well.

Divide the batter into 4 sections, placing one section per dehydrator try. My trays are 14 x14″ so adjust according to your machine.

Roll the batter out on the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator about 1/8 – 1/4″ thick.

Square up the edges nice and straight, then score the crackers into triangle shapes.

I used a long metal ruler to score the crackers.

You can use a pizza cutter or knife, just be careful that you don’t cut the teflex sheet.




In a grinder such as The Bullet, powder the 1/2 cup of chili corn nibblers, nutritional yeast, salt, and chili powder together.

Shake on top of the chips/crackers.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for 6-8 hours, flip them onto the mesh sheet and peel the teflex sheet off.  Continue drying for another 6-8 hours or until dry.

Once cool, snap the crackers and apart and store in an airtight container for 2 weeks.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


Here is a photo showing you the texture of the nuts, etc. that I created.

After adding the wet ingredients and blending it together, this is what it ought to look like.

Roll out flat and score into the cracker size that you want. I have made them both at 1/4 and 1/8th” and prefer the thinner one. But it’s up to you.

You can also use a metal ruler to score the crackers. Or even perhaps a pizza cutter.

Sprinkle on the topping and slide the tray into the dehydrator.

I always get requests for pictures that show the side view. I did my best. :)

Dried, crunchy, and airy… love these crackers!

Top view.

Side view. That was a hard shot to catch :)

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



