Vegan Eggless “Egg” Salad (with agar “eggs")
https://nouveauraw.com/raw-recipes/main-dishes/eggless-egg-salad-with-agar-eggs/



	Eggless Egg Salad, with agar “eggs”

													    
    


				This is the second “egg” salad recipe that I am sharing with you.  I love having a variety of recipes because it gives me the freedom to make dishes simply based on what ingredients I happen to have on hand.  This recipe uses agar “eggs” but if you want you can check out my … Vegan Chunky Eggless “Egg” Salad,  which is avocado based.   Both are amazing.  Well, we think so anyway. :)

If you are open to adventure, I highly recommend this recipe though.  Agar isn’t a raw ingredient, but it comes with good health benefits, not to mention the fact that it makes beautiful “egg whites.”

This is becoming one of Bob’s all-time favorites.   I am amazed at how authentic it tastes, and the texture is spot on. If you scroll further on down the page, you will see a picture of the “eggs” that I diced up for this recipe.  I had entirely too much fun just playing around with the sheet of “egg whites.”

Agar is derived from a plant source (red seaweed) rather than an animal source, which makes it suitable for those who follow a vegetarian and/or vegan diet.  It is also perfect for diets with restrictions for moral, ethical, and religious reasons.

It has no taste, no odor, and no color.  Agar can also be used as a laxative (it’s 80 percent fiber) and as an appetite suppressant which gives a sensation of feeling full.  It is also used as a digestive aid by some people, to ease stomach upsets.

Agar can set at room temperature; therefore it holds form even as the temperature rises.  So see, it’s not so bad after all. :)  Go on now, and give it a try. If you have any questions along the way, just let me know.  I will do my best to help you.  

Ingredients:

Yields 4 cups


“Egg whites”: yields 2 1/2 cups cubed

1 1/2 cups (352 g) plain almond milk

1/2 cup (114 g) water

2 tsp (7 g) agar powder or 2 Tbsp agar flakes

1/4 tsp (1 g) Kala namak (black salt)




“Egg” mixture:

3/4 cup (90 g) raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours  or 1 ½ cups chopped avocado

1/4 cup (57 g) water

1 1/2 Tbsp (27 g) yellow mustard or raw mustard

1 1/2 Tbsp (20 g) raw apple cider vinegar

1 tsp (8 g) raw agave nectar

1/2 tsp (2 g) smoked paprika

1/4 tsp (1 g) onion powder

1 tsp (1 g) dried dill

1/4 tsp (1 g) curry powder

1/4 tsp (1 g) turmeric powder

1 tsp (5 g) Kala Namak (Indian Black Salt) 1/8 tsp (<1 g) ground black pepper



Mix-ins: (optional to taste)


Cubed “eggs.”

1/4 cup diced red pepper

2 Tbsp diced white onions

1 tsp dried chives

2 Tbsp diced Raw Sweet Bread & Butter Overnight Pickle


Preparation:

“Egg whites”:


Place the water, agar, and salt in a small saucepan.  Turn the heat on medium-high and whisk until it starts to bubble.  Reduce the heat to medium and continue to whisk for 4 minutes.  We need to make sure the agar dissolves.

Remove from the heat and stir in the almond milk.  Move quickly because the agar will start to gel if left to cool too long.

Pour the mixture into a shallow baking pan.

You can use any size pan, but no larger the 9″ x 12″.

Allow to cool in place for 5-10 minutes.

Uncovered, place in the fridge to set up.  No need to oil or line the pan.

Once firm, remove from the pan and dice into small bite-size cubes.




“Egg” yolk mixture:


If using cashews; soak, drain and rinse the cashews before adding to the blender.  If using avocado; peel and remove the seeds before adding to the blender.

Add the water, mustard, apple cider vinegar, agave, paprika, onion powder, dill, curry powder, turmeric, Indian Black salt, and pepper.  (Whew, I think I got it all).  Blend until smooth and creamy.  If you used cashews make sure that the sauce is smooth and doesn’t have any tiny bits of cashews.


Assembly:


Pour the “egg” yolk mixture into a medium-sized mixing bowl, add cubed “eggs,” diced pepper, onion, chives and sweet pickle.  Gently fold together.

Store leftovers in the fridge for about 2-3 days.  Make sure it is well covered, so it doesn’t dry out.


Nutrient Macros: per 1/4 cup serving

Calories: 315 / Fat 23.3 g / Carbs: 15.3 g / Fiber: 6.8 g / Protein: 11.7 g


		
		
			
				
			
				
				Lightly simmer mixture to dissolve agar.
				
			
				
			
				
				Pour into a baking pan with an edge.
				

			
				
			
				
				Allow to cool, then transfer to the fridge to set up.
				
			
				
			
				
				Once firm (15 mins.) Loosen the edges.
				

			
				
			
				
				Slice into small squares.
				
			
				
			
				
				Scoop out into a bowl.
				

			
				
			
				
				And there we have it… “eggs”!
				
			

		

 

 

 

 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



