Vegan “Egg” Salad Sandwich
https://nouveauraw.com/recipe-mashups/vegan-egg-salad-sandwich/



	Egg Salad Sandwich

													    
    


				

Egg salad sandwiches are a classic comfort food, a special occasion food.   They are popular for picnics, family gatherings, Super Bowl parties and all kinds of get-togethers.  They were what the turkey is the day after Thanksgiving.  Leftover turkey becomes turkey sandwiches.  The day after Easter, leftover eggs becomes egg salad sandwiches.

To be honest, I never understood why they were considered a special occasion food, but they always ended up being that way.  They are simple to make, so why they never because a typical sandwich for daily lunches is beyond me.

After starting my journey with vegetarian, vegan and raw… I lost sight of egg salad sandwiches.   They were so far down the list of foods to not eat that I just gave up on having any thought of them.  Well, not anymore!  Move over standard veggie sandwiches… you now have a run for your money.

I don’t know how it is for you, but when I started my journey towards eating a healthier diet, I always focused on what foods I couldn’t have, the foods that I had to sacrifice … but these days, I really try to focus on more of what I CAN eat and if you are really honest and dig deep, you will find that there are more foods that you can eat than not.

(From Bob: “These are amazing!”)

 



Ingredients:


Vegan Eggless “Egg” Salad (with agar “eggs”) – recipe

Raw Honey Oat Bread – recipe 

Sliced tomatoes

Sprouts


Preparation:


You need 2 whole slices of bread to make a full sandwich, or you can use one slice to make a half-sandwich. :)

Add a scoop of “egg” salad, top with sliced tomato and sprouts.

Eat your sandwich whole or cut diagonally!  Most of all… enjoy!


 





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



