Melted Smoked Gouda Crostini
https://nouveauraw.com/recipe-mashups/melted-smoked-gouda-crostini/



	Melted Smoked Gouda Crostini

													    
    


				I created this post for those of you who may be browsing through my site, looking to pull together a dish to make for your next dinner.  It involves my Vegan Shredded Gouda Cheese and the Crispy Rosemary Flatbread Crackers… those and few other fresh ingredients.

When I create recipes, I like to come up with different ways that you can use the “batter.”  So for example; a cracker recipe can be made into crackers, bread sticks, croutons or flatbreads.

Each different form can create many different recipes!   Crackers are great to compliment soups; bread sticks can elevate any raw zucchini pasta dish, croutons add that O-M-Gosh-I-really-need-a-crunchy-wow-factor- in-my-everyday-boring-salad and flatbreads can be made into a meal all by themselves!

You can even make the cracker recipe into small discs which would be perfect for creating hors d’oeuvres (horsy-dervs) as I would call them as a child)  for your next gathering.  So many ideas… so little time!

So, when I write-up simple posts like this, it is really just to encourage you to think “outside the recipe” and add variety to your daily menu.  Eating a healthy diet doesn’t have to result in a plate of carrot sticks and celery… though there is nothing wrong with carrots and celery, but it never hurts to dress things up a bit.

Ingredients:


Vegan Shredded Smoked Gouda recipe

Crispy Rosemary Flatbread Crackers (version 1 or version 2)

cherry tomatoes

green onions

olive oil

aged balsamic vinegar


Preparation:


Follow the directions to make the flatbread.  You will need to prepare these a day in advance.

Follow the directions to make the gouda.  This can be made one day, two days, three days, or the day of serving your crostinis.

Slice the cherry tomatoes in half and slice the green onions into slivers.

To assemble; shred a layer of gouda over the flatbread, sprinkle with the tomatoes and onions.  Drizzle the olive oil and vinegar over the top.

Eat as is or place in the dehydrator at 115 degrees (F) for 30 minutes to melt the cheese and “roast” the veggies.


Crisp Rosemary Flatbread Crackers (version 2) recipe



Crispy Rosemary Flatbread Crackers (version 1) recipe





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



