Spider Mites
https://nouveauraw.com/recipes-ready-for-edit-bob/spider-mites-plant-pest/



	Spider Mites | Plant Pest

													    
    


				Spiders, in general, are enough to make a person’s skin crawl. I often find that if I don’t make eye contact with them, I will survive the encounter. The problem with spider mites is that they are nearly invisible to the naked eye. You usually need a magnifying lens to spot them. They are some of the most feared common household insect pests, mainly because they are so challenging to get rid of. If you ever spot a plant at the store with spider mites, DO NOT buy it unless you are ready for an uphill battle in a snowstorm.



Appearance


They are roughly the size of a black pepper grain and yellowish or greenish.

Magnification is typically required to see them.

Amber-colored mite eggs, whitish cast skins, and black fecal specks may also be seen.

Typically,  spider mites are detected first by their webbing.


Plant Damage


Piercing leaf tissue with needle-like mouthparts, feeding on sap.

The damage shows up as stippling or light dots on the leaves. Sometimes the leaves take on a bronze color.

As they continue to feed, the leaves turn yellowish or reddish and fall off.


Detection


Watch for speckled or mottled discoloration on leaves. Severely infested leaves can look bleached.

Spider mites live in colonies, mostly on the undersurfaces of leaves; a single colony may contain hundreds of individuals.

Shake several suspect leaves or branches over a sheet of white paper. Look closely at the specks that have fallen on the paper. If they are moving, they are spider mites.

Look for fine webbing.

Spider mites thrive in dry, warm conditions.


Solution





Wash your hands and any tools after working with infested plants to avoid cross-contamination.

For the first pass, spray the plant with water in the tub, shower, or outside with a hose.  If spraying the plant in the house, be sure to clean that area before introducing yourself or other plants to it.

There are many different approaches when it comes to eradicating plant pests. Here are some treatments that I personally use. Treat with a rubbing alcohol, neem oil, and hydrogen peroxide treatment. Repeat once a week for two to three weeks to eliminate any new hatchlings.


Do not ignore the signs and appearance of plant pests.  Immediate attack is your best defense!

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



