Rules of Knife Safety
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/knife-basics/2-rules-of-knife-safety/



	#2 – Rules of Knife Safety

													    
    


				This post is going to be filled with, “Do Not’s.” Please read through them even if you have been working in the kitchen for a long time. Be open to learning safety techniques not only for yourself but for the safety of others as well. The main “Do” I have when it comes to knives is… DO RESPECT A KNIFE. It can be your friend or foe. Let’s make every moment in the kitchen a positive one.

Over the years I found myself with a terrible habit. When objects would fall to the ground, I would jet my foot out to break its impact. With disregard to what it could do to my toes or foot as a whole, I unconsciously felt that softening the blow of the item falling was far more important than my foot. (insert – *smacks head*) I have done this even with a knife that fell off the counter. Thank goodness I didn’t injure myself. In the meantime, I am trying to break this habit. Let’s look at more practices that we might need to break.

High-quality knives can and should be enjoyed for a long time.

Here’s How to Achieve that…

Do Not Place in Dishwasher


Do not put knives in the dishwasher. Not only are dishwasher detergents harsh on a knife, the intense heat and moisture inside the dishwasher can also lead to blunting the edge of the knife and can be hard on knives with wooden handles. They can also get chipped or blunted when the dishwasher rattles them for however long your cycle lasts.


Do Not Leave Knives in the Sink


Laying knives in a wet sink throws caution to the wind on many levels. First of all, allowing a knife to sit in water can cause corrosion, spotting, and rusting of the blade. This rule applies to sinks with or without standing water in it. Even an empty sink that is just wet is off limits for a knife.

Laying a knife in warm, soapy, murky water is a fast pass to the emergency room. I used to do this in my beginning years. I shudder when I think about it. Thank goodness, I can kiss all ten digits on my hands to this day. The best habit is NEVER to place a knife in a sink. There is no reason why you can’t address it on the spot. Within twenty seconds it can be washed, dried, and put away.


Do Not Place Knife Close to Edge of Counter


A no-brainer if you have little ones in the house, BUT even us grown-up kids need protection. It doesn’t take much to brush past that knife, causing it to fall. What is our first reaction when something is falling? Quick! Catch It! You might not be so proud palming this capture.


Do Not Let Your Knives Roam Free


In this day and age, we all applaud the terms “free-range and free-roaming,” but when it comes to knives, this isn’t the case. As the knives bump up against other kitchen utensils, the edge of the blade will become dull. But worse off, you risk serious injury sifting through a drawer and cutting yourself on a loose, unprotected knife.


Do Not Scrape Food Up and Off of a Cutting Board


It’s not uncommon to witness a person flip their blade over so they can slide it under chopped veggies (etc.) to scoop them into a bowl or pan. It’s not good for the blade, and it’s just poor form when learning to handle a knife. Essentially, you’re shoving the sharp knife blade right towards the fleshy part of the catching hand. Take a moment and visualize that.


Do Not Reach for a Falling Knife


I am going to speak from experience here. As I mentioned above, I have an awful habit of sticking my foot out to soften the blow of something falling to the ground. Out of natural reaction, I have even done this when a knife has fallen. Not good, not good.

If a knife is falling, clear all living flesh (feet, kids, dogs) from the area ASAP and let the knife fall.


Do Not Have Deep Conversations While Using a Knife.


Go ahead and giggle but there is a two-folded reason as to why you shouldn’t. First off, when we talk, we like to use our hands to enhance the expression of our words. Even if you don’t think YOU do, trust me, you do. Ever witness the sport of fencing? Let’s not replicate that in the kitchen. haha

Secondly, when working with a knife, you should be focused on the task at hand (pun intended). Getting lost in conversation whether joyous or heated, is an open invitation for the slip of the knife… and then there is blood. Case settled.


Do Not Walk with a Knife Pointing Upward


When walking with a knife, lay your arm against your body and always carry the knife with the tip of the blade pointing towards the ground with the blade facing back. This habit is wonderful to get into even if you are the only person living in the house.

By doing this, you will prevent unnecessary and painful accidents from happening should someone come whizzing around the corner or briskly walk past you.


Do Not Hand a Person a Knife


When passing a knife to someone, put the knife down on the counter and let them pick it up.


Do Not Use a Knife for Anything other than Food Prep


Don’t use your kitchen knives to pick a lock, remove nails from the wall, pry open your spouse’s piggy bank, open the Amazon box that just arrived, break up the huge block of ice in your ice maker, and so on.

Accidents are just waiting to happen, not to mention that you risk chipping the blade and dulling it.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



