Sprouting Hulless Oats
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/sprouting/sprouting-hulless-oats/



	Oat Sprouts

													    
    


				Sprouting Hulless Oats
Hulless oats are tender, have a mild sweetness and very quick to sprout.   You can enjoy them within a day or continue the sprouting process for up to three days. They contain a large amount of soluble and insoluble fiber. Great for breakfast, late night cereal snack, in raw bread and dehydrated raw cookies.

Activation Recommended

After all the research that I have done, I won’t ever consume another grain, nut or seed without removing all the inhibitors that block and damage our digestive system. Through the sprouting process…    “Enzymes are activated.   All seeds contain enzymes and enzyme inhibitors. 

When sprouted, grains release their enzymes, and the enzyme inhibitors are neutralized. This once dormant seed has now sprung into plant life. Antinutrients are neutralized. ” Phytic acid and enzyme inhibitors are the plant’s natural defense against degradation. When sprouted, grains are given the signal to neutralize these substances that can be hard on the human body. Vitamins are Increased.  

Sprouting is said to change the way our bodies read the consumption of grain into the consumption of a plant. In the sprouting process, the vitamin count is increased as well. Carbohydrates are Reduced. When a seed or grain is sprouted, it begins taking energy from the seed and using it to create the plant life of the sprout. This means that a bit of the macronutrient counts, like carbohydrates, are changed.” (source)

As you go to make your purchase, the most important thing is to make sure that the oats are sproutable.   Look for words such as “hulless” or  “sprouting seeds” on the label.  If you are in doubt, contact the manufacturer.

If you question anything that read here, I encourage you to do your own research.   You can find varying sources of information regarding soak times, whether to add salt to that process or not, etc. I am sharing what I do, and what I find best to use, as a guideline when providing healthy whole foods for my friends and family.   For my digestive system, I find that I do better with my oats, quinoa, buckwheat, and rice… cooked.  So I still go through the soaking and sprouting process to unlock the enzyme inhibitors but then take it another step further with cooking it.  You decide which route is best for YOUR body. :)

Sprout for optimum nutrition:

Rinsing and cleaning:


Place the hulless oats in a colander and rinse them for about a minute before soaking.

Use a strainer that had small enough holes to where the small oats won’t fall through.


Soaking Process:


Transfer the hulless oats in a bowl or quart sized jar.

Add 2-3 times the amount of water to 1 part of oats.  So for 1 cup of oats, add about 3 cups of water.   Give the seeds a quick stir to ensure that water contact is made by all seeds.

Add 2 Tbsp lemon juice or raw apple cider vinegar for each cup of oats.

Soak for 8-12 hours.  Feel free to water your houseplants with the soak water.


Time to sprout:


Pour the oats into a mesh strainer and rinse thoroughly with cool water, around 60-70 degrees (F).

You can leave the oats in the mesh strainer for the sprouting session, use a mason jar or use special sprouting trays.

I find that keeping them in the strainer makes for less mess and easy cleanup.

I set the strainer inside of a large bowl to catch any of the draining water.  This important, this allows air to circulate and stops water from puddling in the oats which could encourage bacteria growth.

Below I also showed you how I sprouted them in a 1/2 gallon mason jar that is fitted with a mesh screen lid.




Set the drained oats out of direct sunlight, and at room temperature, 70 degrees (F) is optimal. This is where your sprouts will do their growing.

If using the strainer to sprout in, cover the strainer with a breathable cloth such as cheesecloth.  They like air-circulation, so don’t suffocate the sprouts.


Rinsing and draining:


Twice a day rinse and drain the oats.  A good time would be right away in the morning when you are having breakfast, and then again in the later part of the day, when you are preparing dinner.  So approximately, every 8-12 hours.  If you live in a warmer climate, you might want to add in one additional rinse and drain.

Remember to rinse with water around the temperature of 60-70 degrees (F).

I encourage you to taste your crop of oats at every rinse session, even after the first initial rinse and soak.  They are already alive and can be enjoyed at any time during this process.


Harvesting:


Harvest after 1-3 days. Taste test along the way to see where you like them.  They change in taste as they sprout more.

After the final rinse/drain session (again stopping at your desired time frame), drain them as thoroughly as possible after that final rinse.  Spread out on a paper towel and blot or air dry a bit.  They will store best in your refrigerator if they are dry to the touch.

Refrigerate ~ Place the sprouts in a plastic bag or sealed container of your choice and store in the fridge.

Use in breakfast porridges, sprinkle on top of yogurt or on top of salads for added crunch.




Dehydrate:

You can dehydrate the sprouted oats by spreading them out on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.  If the holes in the mesh screens are too large and your the seeds fall through, place on the teflex sheet.  Place another mesh sheet on top to prevent them from flying around when the blower fan is on.

Dry at 115 degrees (F) for about 4-6 hours or until completely dry.

Store in an airtight container.  These are great to eat by the handful, add to; granolas, yogurts, porridges, etc.

Or you can create an oat groat flour.






		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



