Sacha Inchi Seed Pulp
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/ingredient-directory/sacha-inchi-seed-pulp/



	Sacha Inchi Seed Pulp (vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)

													    
    


				Just like any other nut or seed… the Sacha Inchi seed doesn’t want to be left out when it comes to the pulp department.

You would be crazy to toss this precious by-product from making Sacha Inchi Seed Milk because you can still squeeze (pun intended) out some of the health benefits such as; cardiovascular, hair, and skin health, mood enhancement due to its serotonin content, plus it can help lower cholesterol and it is a powerful anti-inflammatory agent!

Where do you get your Protein?

Inchi seeds are also a great way to increase your protein intake. In just one ounce, you will get 9 grams of protein.  If you are vegan, it is inevitable to be questioned where you get your protein… well, now you can add Inchi seeds to the list.

Mega Omega!

Looking for a good dose of  Omega 3, 6, and 9 Oils? Yep, Inchi seeds are here to the rescue! Why do we care about the omega oils? Well two good reasons, they decrease inflammation and create cardiovascular health.

Truth be told, Sacha Inchi seeds contain over 17 times the amount of Omega 3 oil found in salmon. They contain 6 grams of Omega 3 oil per ounce. They also have 3 times the amount of Omega 3 oil found in walnuts. I found that bit of info pretty impressive.

Sacha Inchi contains and is also a source of the following:


54% Omega 3

33.4% Omega 6

7.2% Omega 9

High in Protein & Fiber

Loaded with bioavailable vitamins and minerals

Contains all 9 Essential amino acids


What to do with Inchi seed pulp…

The pulp left over from making milk from the seeds can be dehydrated and ground into a very high protein flour that can be used in raw recipes and also in other baked goods if you cook.   It can also be added to raw cookie recipes for added bulk and nutrients.  So if this interests you but you are totally new to Sacha Inchi seeds, I have some other posts that will help you get started.


What are Sacha Inchi Seeds? Click (here).

How to make Sacha Inchi Seed Milk, click (here).

Where do I buy them? So far I have been ordering them online through my Amazon store. Click on the following link to view the ones that I have tried and enjoy (here).


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



