Grow Clover Seed Sprouts in a Jar
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/sprouting/clover-seed-sprouts-jar-method/



	Clover Seed Sprouts

													    
    


				Clover Seed Sprouts – Jar method
Sweet, crunchy clover sprouts are loaded with protein, calcium, potassium, magnesium, iron, and zinc, as well as vitamins A, B, C, E.  All of their many nutritional elements, are easily assimilated and readily available to your body.

When exposed to light they grow green and rich with chlorophyll and vitamins.  Clover seeds aren’t difficult to sprout, and each new crop takes less than a week. The sprouts can be eaten raw as a snack, in salads, on raw sandwiches, in smoothies, and so forth.  I personally think these little guys are pretty darn amazing!

Save Money

Learning how to sprout seeds will not only bring you great satisfaction it will also save on the pocketbook. One tablespoon of seeds will fill a quart jar with several ounces of sprouts. A 4-ounce package will yield several pounds.

Simple and Easy

It takes less than a minute per day to grow and prepare sprouts. Sprouts will grow nearly anywhere indoors, in any season. Sprouts require very little space and travel well. They are ideal to take along in your camper, boat, or RV.   Have spouts, will travel! hehe

No Garden Required

No digging, planting, weeding, pests, or chemicals involved!  You never need to take the weather into account as to it they will make it or not. In just 3 to 7 days you will have a bountiful, nutrition-packed harvest. When stored in your refrigerator, they will stay fresh for days- even weeks if rinsed properly.

Ingredients: 


3 Tbsp clover seeds

Water

1/2 gallon sized canning jar with a mesh screen


Preparation:


Measure 3 tablespoon clover seeds into a  1/2 gallon-sized, glass canning jar.  Fill the jar with water.

Cover the jar with a fine mesh screen and secure the screen tightly to the jar with the canning jar ring or a rubber band.

Place the jar on your kitchen countertop or any place where the jar is at a normal room temperature and let the seeds soak overnight. (8-12 hrs)




Drain the water and seeds through the mesh screen the following morning,  rinse and drain again.

Tip the jar upside down at an angle and set it in a bowl to allow the water to continue to drain.

I like using a dish drying rack.  See below.  I use a stainless steel dish drying rack for this.  It keeps the jars at a nice angle to help drain the water.




Rinse and drain the clover seeds two to three times every day.

Once you see the beginning of tiny leaves (sprouts), move the jar near a sunny spot.

As the sprouts grow, start to taste test them to see when you want to stop the sprouting process.

This can take 5-6 days. Remember to rinse and drain them several times a day up until harvesting them.




When ready to harvest we will do one last step to release/remove some of the hulls.

A salad spinner is a wonderful tool to use. Fill the container with water, place the sprouts in the container, and with your fingers swish them around. Pump the spinner a few times. This will cause the loose hulls to float to the top. Drain out the water and spin the sprouts dry.

The hulls are the outer shell of the seeds that are removed in the natural process of sprouting the seed.  You can eat them but oftentimes they can be more difficult to digest.




Store the sprouts in the refrigerator.  The sprouts can last up to six weeks, but the taste is better when the sprouts are fresh.


Tip:


Before moving your sprouts to the fridge, they should be dry to the touch. Let our sprouts sit for 8-12 hours after their final rinse to make sure they are dry!  Again, using a salad spinner will speed up that process.  To dry them, spread paper towels on your countertop and spread the sprouts out, so air can dance around them, helping them to dry.

You can transfer them to a plastic bag, use a special green produce bag, or you can use a glass or plastic container.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



