Juicing Tips and Tricks
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/juicer-basics/juicing-tips-and-tricks/



	#2 – Juicing Tips and Tricks

													    
    


				Juicing is one of the easiest ways to get your daily recommended servings of fruits and veggies every day. It is digested quickly and easily, allowing us the opportunity to increase our body’s natural digestive efficiencies.

They also flood our bodies with antioxidants that boost our immune system. Antioxidants in fresh juice can lead to healthier and more radiant hair, skin, and nails that glow from the inside out!

If you are new to juicing, don’t just go out and purchase a low-end juicer, conventional produce, and cram anything down the juicer chute with your fingers crossed, in hopes of creating an enjoyable masterpiece.

Today, I am going to share how to avoid purchasing the wrong juicer, and tips and tricks in making your juice delicious. I am also going to cover some health concerns that you need to know before juicing.

Juicing Pothole to Watch for

Using the wrong type of juicer

Not all juicers are equal. There are less expensive centrifugal juicers on the market, but they introduce heat and oxygen and destroy the enzymes and nutrients in your fruits and vegetables.

While it may cost you a bit more initially, a premium cold-press juicer will produce a superior-quality juice and allow you to extract more from your fruit and vegetables, saving expense in the long-term.

If you think about it, we are here talking/reading about juicing because we want to clean up our diet and help support our bodies in every way possible. Why buy fresh organic produce, why purchase a juicer, and why take the time to make juice if we are not getting everything we could from it? Now that’s a waste of money, time, and effort.



Tips – Making the Best of Juicing


Green veggies like kale, spinach, parsley, and cabbage surprisingly do not taste very intense when juicing, so load up on those and enjoy!

Citrus, lime juice, in particular, can help to cut out any bitter taste from vegetables.

Juicing high water content vegetables like cucumbers and celery will help add volume and nutrients.

Mix things up. Don’t drink the same combination every day. Get a variety of nutrients!

Never toss the juice pulp. Use it in raw dehydrated crackers and loaves of bread. If you are juicing a lot or perhaps not very often, you can freeze the pulp to use at a later date.



Tips for juicing for the first time or any time


CHEW YOUR JUICE!

Chewing stimulates the digestive tract to prepare it to do its job




If at all possible, use organic produce.

The raw produce can contain high levels of pesticides or be genetically-modified.




Add fruit and lots of greens.

Add a piece of fruit or a sweet veggie to your juice, such as an apple or carrot. It will sweeten up the flavor and be more desirable for new-to-juicing palates.

Always add greens! Juicing greens is an excellent way to consume more veggies throughout the day.




Drink your juice through a straw and brush and floss your teeth regularly.

Chill it!

Let your juice chill in the freezer for three to five minutes before sipping.

Cold juice tends to be more desirable than room temperature juice.




If you make too much to drink it all at once, store your juice in an airtight container like a thermos or mason jar.

Fill to the top and make sure it’s sealed.

Light destroys enzymes so if using a glass jar, wrap the glass jar in aluminum foil to block out the light.

Refrigerate right away. Fresh juice will keep for up to 24 hours, but best to drink within 30 minutes for optimal nutrition.




Drink juice on an empty stomach.

That way all the nutrients are absorbed right away and they don’t have to fight with other foods your body is trying to digest at the same time.








Juicing Certain Fruits and Veggies


The nutrients are most concentrated just beneath the skin, so leave them on whenever possible. If using conventional produce, I would remove the skins.


Cantaloupe

Don’t juice the rind as it may alter the taste.




Celeriac (celery root)

The skin of a celeriac root is very rough, pitted, holds dirt in the crevices, and is hard to wash. I recommend removing the skin.




Leafy greens

Roll leaves into tight pods before pushing them through the food chute.

When juicing greens with other produce, do so in this order: leafy greens –> soft fruits and veggies –> hard fruits and veggies. The harder fruits and vegetables help to push through any bits of leafy greens that are stuck in the feeding tube of your juicer.

Juice the steams of broccoli, chard, kale, etc.

DO NOT juice carrot tops and the leaves on rhubarb and eggplant – those are toxic.




Lemons and limes

Go ahead and juice with their peels for their bioflavonoids that super-boost any nutrients in juices.




Mangos

Remove the skin as it contains a phytochemical called urushiol that may cause an itchy rash and an allergic reaction in some people.




Orange and Grapefruit

I would remove the skin since they can taste bitter and may cause stomach upset.




Pineapple

Remove the skins before juicing.




Pomegranate

The skin should be removed, but the arils may be put through your juicer to be juiced.




Root Veggies

Just wash them using a vegetable brush under running water, and cut out any stubborn dirt, or bruises.

No need to peel, unless they are conventional.




Stone Fruits and Seeds

Remove seeds from stone fruits, pumpkin, cherries, mangos, and guava fruit.




Watermelon

The rind and skin can be juiced along with the flesh; it provides chlorophyll and improves juice yield.

The seeds can also be juiced as they are rich in zinc and magnesium.









© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



