Hemp Oil
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/ingredient-directory/hemp-oil/



	Hemp Oil

													    
    


				Hemp oil can look and taste different depending on which way it is processed. Cold pressed and unfiltered hemp oil is a dark green liquid. It has a nut like flavor, somewhat grassy.

Unrefined hemp oil does not have a very long shelf life. The oil quickly goes rancid, unless it is stored in dark containers in a refrigerated environment.  The refined hemp oil is colorless and lacks much of the original flavor of unrefined hemp oil. The refined version also lacks in many nutrients that are present in hemp seeds naturally.

Unbalanced Omega 3 & 6 can lead to:

Hemp oil is one of the more balanced oils when it comes to the omega’s and it is easily digestible. (3:1 LA to LNA ratio). It’s no hidden secret that typical American diets lead to an unbalanced diet in the essential fatty acids.

A deficiency in omega 3 can lead symptoms of; growth retardation, weakness, impairment of vision and learning ability, motor incoordination, tingling in arms and legs, behavioral changes.  Such things can be reversed by adding it back in and creating a balance in your diet.

We know that it is common to have this imbalance of omega’s in our diet and our first reaction is to go overboard with adding in the 3’s.  It’s not about having more of one omega, it’s about creating a balance.  Don’t become so focused on just learning what foods have omega 3 in them… you must educate yourself on the 6’s as well.

A deficiency in omega 6 can lead to; eczema skin eruptions, loss of hair, liver degeneration, behavioral disturbances, kidney degeneration, excessive water loss through the skin accompanied by thirst, drying up of glands, susceptibility to infections, failure of wound healing, and many other dis-eases.   You can read more about it (here).

Balanced Omega 3 & 6 can provide:

Those who suffer from chronic inflammatory diseases can benefit greatly from hempseed oil. Due to the balance of the omega fatty acids, it is strongly anti-inflammatory.  With regular use, one can clearly see an improvement in inflammation and even pain in conditions like arthritis.  Taking 1 tablespoon of hemp seed oil daily is good enough to start seeing its effects.

The body needs Omega 3 for proper organ, metabolism and brain function.  Omega 6 is also required for energy production, keeps the heart tissue functioning properly and can help the body recover from fatigue.   These are just a few wonderful things about hemp oil.  (source)  Please keep up the research and talk to your healthcare provider if you are dealing with any of the issues listed above.  It’s not about dousing yourself with one “superfood” for healing, it is about adding in a combination of nutrients, thus making every little bite count towards healing and maintaining a healthy body.

The Moisturizing Chef

Hemp and coconut oil are permanent ingredients in my kitchen.  Not only do I use them in recipes, I use them as a moisturizer.  I never waste a chance of swiping my finger in the measuring cup or spoon and applying the oil(s) to my hands and face. These two oils can also be used in the bathroom and applied right after your bath or shower.  Apply to damp skin to help it absorb. It nourishes the skin and increases the blood circulation.

Using Hemp Oil in Recipes

You can add hemp oil to many recipes; smoothies, salad dressings, coat tossed veggies with it, or add it to porridges.  I am sure you can think of many different ways to sneak it into your diet, even just a teaspoon here and there can bump up the nutritional value of the foods you eat.   If you also eat cooked veggies, be careful about heating it.  It doesn’t have a high smoke point, so I recommend adding to a cooked dish towards the end.

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



