Hazelnut Flour
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/homemade-raw-flours/hazelnut-flour/



	Hazelnut Flour – made from Whole Nuts

													    
    


				I tend to get many questions regarding the confusion around the difference between nut flours and with what some refer to as nut meals. A typical recipe can read as: 1 cup of hazelnut meal or 1 cup of hazelnut flour. They typically mean the same thing. If you are ever in doubt, always reach out to the recipe designer and ask them to clarify.

Commercially Made

They do make commercial hazelnut flour to which is much finer in texture then what you can create, but it has been heavily processed at high temps.  But keep an eye on the market because more and more companies are popping up with raw versions of ingredients due to demand.

Homemade

You can easily create your own hazelnut flour (meal). Remove the lid of your food processor, add hazelnuts, close lid, and process! I may have just fibbed… to do it correctly for the best results, there are a few other steps and tips that I want to share, but basically, that is all that there is to it.

There is, however, a step that I highly recommend, and that is soaking and dehydrating the walnuts first. Please click (here) to read how and why. Also, keep in mind that Hazelnut flour has a more distinct flavor. It is great for any item that you want to taste like hazelnuts.

Hazelnut Crumbles

Crumbles are really what it ought to be referred to because the truth is… hazelnuts don’t break down to the consistency of flour (as you might be familiar with).  The reason is that they are composed predominantly of fat. But they also contain many other wonderful nutrients such as; folate, fiber, copper, and manganese. They also have the highest proanthocyanidin content of any tree nut. These compounds are known for contributing astringent flavor to foods and may help reduce the risk of blood clotting and urinary tract infections.

If you are looking for a way to create a finer grind of hazelnut flour, it can be achieved through the process of creating hazelnut pulp. Hazelnut pulp is created by making hazelnut milk. That is another whole process that we will dive into later.



Keep a close eye on this process because if you over-process the hazelnuts, they will release much of their oils, and if that happens, you are heading to nut butter land. Should you get distracted while you are processing your nuts and they do indeed get oily, don’t fret.  Go ahead and continue processing the walnuts, add a pinch of salt and sweetener (if desired) and make healthy hazelnut butter.

When it comes to creating our own flour,  I recommend using a food processor that is fitted with an “S” blade. In a pinch, you can use a blender, but you have a greater chance it turning into nut butter because there isn’t much room for the walnuts to freely spin in.  It is best to make these as needed, rather than pre-making them and having them sit around.  Nutrients will be lost over time. If you find that you processed too much, that’s ok… put it in a freezer-safe jar and store in the fridge, so the oils don’t go rancid.

Hazelnut Flour made from pulp

To make the flour from pulp:


Start with making hazelnut milk.  Strain the liquid from the pulp. Click here on how to make nut milk.

Using an offset spatula, spread the pulp on a nonstick drying sheet on a dehydrator shelf.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for up to 24 hours, or until completely dry.

Dry times always vary depending on the climate, how thick you spread the pulp, how full the machine is, and so forth. So use this as a guideline.




Once dry and cooled, transfer the dehydrated pulp to a food processor and grind to a flour.

It won’t break down to a powdery flour texture but pretty darn close.

Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days or in the freezer for longer shelf life.


Hazelnut Flour made from hazelnuts

To make the flour from whole hazelnuts:


Soak and dehydrate the hazelnuts.

Place them in the food processor, fitted with an “S” blade,  and process until it reaches a small crumble.

This type of flour won’t break down to a powder, just small crumbles due to the fat content.

Be careful that you don’t over-process and start making nut butter.

It helps to freeze the nuts before grinding, use the pulse setting on the processor.




 Try to make it only as needed, so it doesn’t go rancid if you make extra, store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days or in the freezer for longer shelf life.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is essential to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do, however honestly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



