Whipped Cream Technique (dairy-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/pastry-and-decorating-techniques/whipped-cream-technique-dairy-free/



	Whipped Cream Technique (dairy-free)

													    
    


				I love the simple things in life… and Homemade Whipped Cream is one of those things.   I have a list of “my most powerful kitchen tools” (blender. food processor, spiralizer, dehydrator…)

The ISI Whipped Cream Dispenser may be late to getting on my list, but it now has earned a permanent place.  You can make whipped cream by hand with a hand mixer but with one of these dispensers you can create five times the volume of the ingredients that go into the canister.

How does it work?

For the unit to create whipped cream, you will require a charger, which is made of pure N2O (Nitrous Oxide) gas which is odorless and tasteless.  It’s totally food-safe, and it’s what you find in aerosol cans of whipped topping.

N2O is extremely soluble in fatty compounds; it is dissolved in the fatty cream until it leaves the canister. Therefore the whipped cream only becomes a solid or foam when you press the lever. A whipped cream dispenser needs to be shaken after the cartridge is inserted so that the gas can bind with the fats in the cream.

Simple Recipe

To create the whipped cream in the photo to the right, I combined one can of chilled  Full-fat coconut milk and one dropper full of NuNatural liquid stevia in the blender. Once creamy, I poured it into my ISI Whipped Cream Dispenser, shook it, and I was ready to go.  You can use other liquid sweeteners, add extracts such as vanilla, and a drop of your favorite essential oil. Another option is my Raw Cashew Whip Cream recipe.

Why does the nozzle keep clogging?

When adding the ingredients into the whipping cream dispenser, make sure they are lump-free and smooth. This will prevent clogging.  If you are unsure, you can always put the mixture through a fine-mesh strainer before pouring it into the canister. I have found that not ALL canned full-fat coconut milk works. Some get too lumpy when chilled.

How much will it make?

I can only speak for the ISI brand, others may differ, but for a 1 pint of ingredients, you need one charger.  That one charger will turn 1 pint of “cream” liquid into roughly 4-5 pints of whipped cream!   Once the chargers are empty, you can recycle them along with other household metals. Another good thing is that the Chargers never expire so you can keep them handy in the pantry.

How long will it last (expiration date)?

The “cream”  that is stored in the canister will stay fresh for as long as the shelf life of your “cream” was before adding it.   Depending on the ingredients used that can be up to 14 days. In reality, it gets used far too quickly so I really can’t speak beyond a few days. :)

Can I use low-fat ingredients? (cream, milk, coconut milk)

In my experience, low-fat doesn’t work well… so I am going to blunt and just say, “No”  The whipping cream must have a minimum fat content of 28% to produce whipped cream with a dispenser. I tried to use fresh Young Thai Coconut meat, blending it to a cream, but with this unit but it didn’t work. When I pressed the nozzle, it came out in a liquid state and looked as though it had separated.  Perhaps more experimenting is required.  A stabilizer seems to be required. Below I started a list of canned coconut milk that I have tested and noted whether it worked or not. The ones with guar gum work. You can start reading about guar gum (here).

Wish to Sweeten the Whip Cream?

Wait to add the sweetener until after you have whipped the coconut milk and know what the consistency is of your cream. If the cream is really soft, adding a liquid sweetener might thin it down even more. So in this case, you will want to use sugar that has been powdered. If the texture is thick and waxy, a liquid sweetener will help to smooth it out.

Sugar-Free Options


NuNaturals Liquid Stevia – I have had good success using nothing else but NuNaturals stevia but I realize that not everybody likes stevia. Since you use very little, you don’t have to worry about adding too much liquid to the coconut whip and thining it out.

Erythritol works great when a dry sweetener is needed. Be sure to powder it first otherwise it can lead to a grainy whipped topping. 1:1 ratio to table sugar.

Markus Sweet – Made from Lohan Guo Monk Fruit and Erythritol, a natural alcohol sugar found in the human body made from non-GMO plant sources. Be sure to powder it before using it. 1:1 ratio to table sugar.

Click (here) for more Diabetic / Low Glycemic Index Sweetener ideas.


Standard Sweeteners


Liquid Sweeteners – Maple Syrup, Coconut Nectar, Yacon Syrup, and Honey – work great as long as the coconut whip isn’t to liquidity. Each sweetener adds its own flavor profile. Click (here) to read more about these sweeteners.

Dry Sweeteners – Coconut Sugar (1:1 ratio for regular sugar), Maple Syrup Sugar (2x stronger than white sugar)


Flavoring Ideas


If you are serving this to people who are wary of the coconut flavor, adding extracts can help disguise the coconut flavor. Vanilla is a neutral flavor but you could also use 1/4 teaspoon of almond extract, or perhaps a few drops of peppermint extract. It all depends on what you are pairing it with.


Where can I get one of these?


ISI Gourmet Whip Plus canister

Cream Whipper Chargers


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



