Mise en Place (everything ready)
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/how-to-tackle-a-recipe/mise-en-place-everything-ready/



	Mise en Place (everything ready)

													    
    


				Mise en Place
Mise en place, pronounced MEEZ ahn plahs, is a French culinary phrase which means having all your ingredients prepared and ready to go before you start cooking. Translated to English, it means “put in place.” You may already apply this technique in your life. For instance, when you go on a trip, first you make sure you have everything you need and are not forgetting anything, then fold everything neatly so it fits into your bags. Or when you are changing the oil in your car…wait a minute, who changes their oil anymore? How about balancing your checkbook? Hmm, do these even exist anymore? I think you see my point here.



I hate to admit this, but I often jump into a recipe without prepping my workspace. I assume that I have all the ingredients needed based on my never-failing memory (not!). There have been times when I am halfway through a recipe when all of a sudden a slew of words start to roll off my tongue…

“HONEY! can you run to the store for me?!” I bet you thought I was going to say something else, didn’t you? haha

Preparing a mise en place not only ensures that you have all of the ingredients needed; it also forces you to read through a recipe first, so you understand what is needed and how the ingredients are used.  Not to mention it is like having an assistant when you are in the midst of making your recipe. You don’t have to fumble around for a measuring spoon or search through the cabinets trying to find an ingredient.

Most likely you are already practicing this technique without even realizing it. Think back to the last time you made tacos. You created bowls of lettuce, onions, salsa, sour cream, etc., all ready for the family to use to assemble their tacos. I know I was doing this long before I even heard the French phrase mise en place!

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



