Sprouting Lentils
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/sprouting/sprouting-lentils/



	Lentil Sprouts

													    
    


				Sprouting Lentils
Sprouting lentils opens up the powerhouse of nutrients that are just waiting to be released.  Even if you prefer to cook lentils, sprouting them ahead of time comes with its rewards.  To increase the nutrients and help to decrease the gas-producing effects, add a 2-4” strip of kombu during the soaking process.

Sprouting neutralizes phytic acid, which, if present, will not allow as much calcium, magnesium, iron, copper, and zinc to be absorbed during digestion.

Sprouts are more comfortable to digest than the unsprouted version of the same food.  It breaks down the seed,  which may mean less work for your digestive system.   If you have digestive issues or find that the raw sprouted ones don’t settle well with you, you can gently cook the sprouted lentils to see if that makes a difference.  It is all about learning to listen to your body to learn what works best for you.

Once sprouted, they cook quickly, in as little as 15 minutes, or they can be rehydrated by soaking in warm water for 45 minutes (this leaves them with a delicious raw-food crunch and fresh vegetal taste).

Lentils come in different colors; brown, green, red, and many shades in between.  The brown lentils which range from khaki-brown to dark black, and generally have a mild earthy flavor.  The green ones range from pale green to brown.  They have a robust, somewhat peppery flavor.  And lastly, the red lentils range from gold to orange to actual red; these are the sweetest and nuttiest of the lentils.

As you can see, the photo to the right, I used the “greenish” lentils, which will have that peppery taste, so these will be perfect in this Raw Taco recipe.

Ingredients:

yields 2 1/4 cups sprouted


2/3 cup dry lentils


Preparation:

Before you start:


Use clean water for soaking and rinsing the lentils.

Clean and sanitize containers used to sprout.

Wash your hands before and after handling the lentils.


Soaking:


Inspect seeds and remove any that are broken or look a little strange.

Place them in a colander and rinse them thoroughly.

Put the lentils in a quart-sized jar.

Fill the jar with water, about 3 inches over lentils and cover.

Soak overnight on the counter or in the fridge, for about eight hours.

After eight hours, drain water.


Rinsing and draining:


Rinse the lentils and return them to the jar.  Cover with a screen or cheesecloth secured with a rubber band,

Turn the jar upside down on a dish rack or in a bowl at a 45-degree angle so it can continue to drain and allow air to circulate.  Make sure the lentils are not covering the mouth of the jar as this will block the airflow and cause the seeds to spoil.  Cover with a towel.  They need their privacy to sprout. :)  This will ensure germination.

Rinse and drain 3 times a day.  Return to the dish rack and cover after each rinse.

Sprouts will begin to form within 24+ hours.  In about 2 days, they should sprout tails that are about 1/8 inch long.   You can use them as soon as the tails poke out, or if you wish, you can let them sprout further.


Harvest:


After they sprout, rinse one last time and enjoy.

Store in the fridge after they are fully sprouted to maintain freshness.

They will last 5–7 days when refrigerated.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



