Assorted Kitchen Tools - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/reference-library/kitchen-organization-basics/kitchen-utensils-gadgets-i-recommend/



	Kitchen Utensils and Gadgets I Recommend

													    
    


				Below I am sharing with you some of my all-time favorite kitchen tools that I use daily. I love kitchen gadgets! If you have a treasured kitchen tool that you find valuable and worth its weight in gold, please share below in the comment section. I would love to hear from you.



For those of you who are just starting with your raw food adventure or you have limited kitchen space, don’t feel that you must have all these items listed below to be successful. My collection grew over time. Not to mention through trial and error in testing out all kinds of different products.

Don’t dismiss the fact that some of the items are simple everyday items. Read through them because you may find creative ways that a simple tool can be used in raw food prep. I have provided shopping links for each item at the bottom of the page. Blessings, amie sue

Cookie Scoops

Use: To make cookies, cake pops, donut and bagel shapes, truffles, etc. I use the following scoops.


Stainless Steel Scoop, 4 Tbsp size

Stainless Steel Scoop, 3 Tbsp size

Stainless Steel Scoop, 1 Tbsp size

Stainless Steel Scoop, 1/2 Tbsp size

Three piece set


Benefits:


Creates cookies of the same size, allowing even dehydrating.

They help with portion control.

Cookie scoops are a great tool to determine how much a batter yields.

I highly recommend the stainless steel ones and make sure they are of good quality. I have purchased plastic and cheaper ones thinking I would save a buck. But in the end, I ended up throwing them out and bought the above scoops.


Tips:


For portion control or in making the “treat’ an even size, be sure to level off the scoop after packing it with the batter.

Keep a glass of water nearby and every once in a while dip the scoop in the water.  Depending on the ingredients, the scoop can build up with stickiness, and it becomes harder for the mixture to release.


Offset Spatulas



Use: I use these all the time for cracker and bar making, icing cakes, etc.


4 1/4″ Offset Spatula

7 3/4″ Offset Spatula

9″ Offset Spatula

Offset Spatula Set


Benefits:


Offset spatulas are ideal for icing large cakes quickly.

They work great when scoring crackers and bars on your dehydrator sheets.

Easy to control when spreading out batters (crackers, breads, wraps, fruit leathers, etc.) on your dehydrator sheets. They are great to clean up the edges and in making sure the batters are spread out evenly so it will dry evenly.

I even use them as a spatula when removing bars from a tray since they are nice and thin.

Great for spreading nut butters.


Spatulas



Use: I use this every day.


I have gone through many many spatulas and to be honest my favorite ones come in a three pack from Safeway. They cost about $4 for the set, and they work perfectly for me. They are sturdy and have thin rubber tips which are great for cleaning out the blender, scraping the meat of Young Thai Coconuts, and EVERYTHING else that requires this type of kitchen tool! I bought at least five packages and have a drawer full! I love them!


Pastry Scraper

Use: I use this for cleaning batters off of my dehydrator sheets or the countertops. It is an excellent tool for scoring bars as well.


OXO Multipurpose Pastry Scraper


Benefits:


Offers a wide variety of uses; mainly designed to scrape and split bread dough as you work with it on a board.

Can also be used for scraping, crushing, chopping, and even measuring.

Inch increments are listed on the blade for dividing cookie and pastry dough.

Durably made with stainless-steel blade and wide, comfortable nonslip rubber handle; comfortable to hold and use.

Cleanup is easy since the scraper is dishwasher safe.


Peeler

Use: I use this for peeling apples, squashes, cucumbers, carrots, etc. A peeler is also another tool used to make noodle ribbons.



Kyocera Advanced Ceramic Perfect Peeler, Red




Benefits:


Granted this peeler is a bit more spendy but as a left-handed person who lives with a right-handed person, this is a gem to have! The blade swivels to accommodate lefties and righties.  Most peelers are designed for right-handed people.

Ultra-sharp blades

Will not brown foods

Five styles for any application

Multiple color selection

Ergonomic handles

Will not rust

Easy to clean


Apple Corer

Use: I use this for the obvious reason, coring apples, but I also use this tool as a doughnut hole maker and bagel hole maker.


OXO Good Grips Apple Corer


Benefits:


Comfortable nonslip handle, wet or dry.

Fruit core removes easily from corer head.

Corer head is stainless steel for easy cleaning and precise cut.

The large handle hole allows for easy storage.

Safe to use in the dishwasher.

Recommended by America’s Test Kitchen.


Green Bean Splitter and Cutter

Use: Used to cut green bean.


Krisk Bean Splitter and Slicer


Benefits:


Saves time in cutting your green beans.

Makes green beans more palatable and pliable for marinating.

Use to slice green beans.

It strings and slices in one smooth motion.

The sharp blade cuts off the top and tail of bean.

Make sure to hand wash.


Masking Tape and markers (don’t laugh!)

Use: I use these for food labeling (I can hear you laughing at me)


Masking Tape

Sharpie Markers


Benefits:


Storing your creations in jars and cambros require labeling. Use the tape and markers to create your labels and write the contents and the date.


Let’s Go Shopping!

The prices listed below are subject to change. 

Cookie Scoops


Norpro Stainless Steel Cookie Scoop

Norpro Stainless Steel Scoop

Norpro Stainless Steel Scoop

Norpro Stainless Steel Scoop

Norpro Stainless Steel Scoop


Offset Spatulas


Wilton 9 Inch Angled Spatula, With Black Handle

Teco 4.25 by 0.75-Inch Small Sized Blade Ultra Spatula

Ateco 7.75 by 1.25-Inch Medium Sized Blade Offset Ultra Spatula

Ateco Professional Offset Spatula Set – (set of 3)


Scraper


OXO Good Grips Multi-purpose Stainless Steel Scraper & Chopper


Peeler


Kyocera Advanced Ceramic Perfect Peeler, Red


Apple Corer


OXO Good Grips Apple Corer


Green Bean Slicer


Krisk Bean Stringer and Slicer


Nouveauraw.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites – at no extra cost to you.

Thank you for your support! amie sue  



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



