Sweet Pea and Brussels Sprout Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/salads/sweet-pea-and-brussels-sprout-salad/



	Sweet Pea and Brussels Sprout Salad

													    
    


				



~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Both Bob and I loved this salad… dip… spread… dish… recipe. It can be enjoyed in so many ways.  Bob said that it reminded him of egg salad. For me, it reminded me of sweet peas and brussels sprouts. Lol,  I am always the logical one. But in the end, the consensus was that it tasted great!

I have been craving peas like there is no tomorrow, so much that I had to investigate why. There is usually a meaning behind cravings. Did you know that green peas are a powerhouse of nutrients? These little green emeralds are full of micronutrients, fiber, and protein.

Every time my teeth bear down and pierce the skin of those baby peas, I break out in a ninja-super-hero-move.  Ok, maybe not literally but in my mind’s eye I do, and that alone is enough to entertain me. :)

Did you know that green peas are a powerhouse of nutrients? These little green emeralds are full of micronutrients, fiber, and protein.  Every time my teeth bear down and pierce the skin of those baby peas, I break out in a ninja-super-hero-move.  Ok, maybe not literally but in my mind’s eye I do, and that alone is enough to entertain me. :)

They are rich in fiber, iron and Vitamin C, all of which helps to strengthen the immune system.  Green peas have been found to aid in energy production, nerve function, and carbohydrate metabolism.

This is just to name a few reasons why peas are an excellent thing to “crave”! With each green-pearl-pea-popping bite, I am going to smile in good health!  I am especially claiming their energy boosting properties; I mean… who doesn’t need that?!

Brussel sprouts came into the picture when I spied a bag of baby brussels sprouts at the store.   Put the word “baby” in front of anything, and I am all over it.  They too are high in fiber and protein.  And let’s not forget that they are also loaded with vitamin A, folacin, potassium, calcium.  So, I am going to go out on a limb and say that this recipe is filled with wonderful nutrients.  I mean really, I have only talked about two ingredients and look what has come from that?

This dish can be enjoyed as a side salad, in a wrap, or spread on crackers. Today, I wrapped it up in a Young Thai coconut wrap, along with some baby greens, hot sauce, and an avocado rose on the side. Bob’s lunch… accomplished! I hope you enjoy the recipe. Please let a comment below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups


2 cups baby brussels sprouts

3 green onions, chopped

3 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

2 tsp Tamari

2 tsp fresh lemon juice

1 Tbsp dried dill

3/4 cup raw mayonnaise

1 cup sweet peas


Preparation:


Wash and remove the ends of the brussels sprouts.

Place the brussels sprouts in the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade and process until broken down into small pieces.

Add the chopped green onions, nutritional yeast, apple cider vinegar, Tamari, lemon juice, and dill. Process till mixed.  Transfer to a medium-sized bowl.

Add the raw mayonnaise and sweet peas.  Stir to mix well.

Eat right away or place in the fridge overnight to all the ingredients to meld together.

Should last approx. 3-4 days.  After it sits in the fridge overnight, the outside will turn a little in color, just give it a stir, and all is good.





		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



