Raw Radish, Cucumber, Apple Salad
https://nouveauraw.com/salads/radish-cucumber-apple-salad/



	Radish, Cucumber, Apple Salad

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This beautiful Radish, Cucumber, and Apple Salad are light, crisp and refreshing.  Perfect for a warm summer day.  I don’t know about you, but when it is hot outside, I tend to crave “cooling” dishes.

There is a fine balance between sweet, sour, and spicy in this delicious salad. Which lands perfectly on thee ole’ tasting pallet.

Burpless Cucumbers

When it comes to selecting cucumbers, I recommend using English cucumbers because they have fewer seeds.   Often you will hear people complain that cucumbers cause gas and burping.  The cause of this is the seeds found in cucumbers.  So if you do need to use regular cucumbers and if they do cause you some “tummy” troubles,  you still can go ahead and use them, just scrape the seeds out before you put them in the salad.

Know your Radishes

Radishes come in all sort of colors, shapes, and sizes. They can be perfectly round, oblong, large and small. They can be polished and glossy, or dull and mate colored. They come in hot pink, purple, fluorescent green, and white. If you are lucky enough to find all the different colored ones, use those for this salad to add a rainbow splash of color.

Some people can’t tolerate the heat found in radishes. If this is you, peel the radishes. The spiciness is mostly found their skins. The sad part is that you will be stripping away the color for this salad. Another technique is to cut both ends off of the radish. Holding the radish firmly make several vertical cuts in the radish, creating a grid pattern, making sure not to cut all the way through the radish. Just do this on one end. Place the cut radishes into a bowl of ice water and slide into the fridge for about one hour. The longer the radishes sit in the cold water, the milder their taste will become.

Also remember, the heat of radishes varies from bunch to bunch. Th flavor is tell-tale of their growing time if they are too hot that usually means that they were picked too late or developed too slowly. So, as a good rule of thumb… taste them before using them. I hope you enjoy this simple, refreshing salad. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Makes 2 servings


2 medium organic apple, sliced thin (3 cups)

1 bunch radishes, sliced thin ( 1 1/2 cups)

1 English cucumber, sliced thin (2 1/2 cups )

1/2 cup cherry tomatoes, sliced

3 Tbsp cold pressed olive oil

3 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar

1 Tbsp raw honey or sweetener

1 Tbsp Sweet and Spicy Mustard

2 cloves garlic, crushed

1 tsp black pepper

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

Optional: garnish with white sesame seeds


Preparation:


Using a sharp knife or mandolin slice the apple, radish, and cucumber in thin slices.

I left the skins on for color and added nutrients.

Just be sure to wash them thoroughly and to use organic produce.




In a small bowl or Magic Bullet (my preference) combine; olive oil, vinegar, sweetener, mustard, garlic and black pepper.  Whisk together and pour over the radishes, etc. Toss gently until everything is well coated.

Chill in fridge till you are ready to eat!


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



