Cumin Kale Salad (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/salads/cumin-kale-salad/



	Cumin Kale Salad

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

If you have been digging around Nouveau Raw,  you have surely noticed that desserts are high on my creation list!  I am going to give it some good effort to start creating more savory dishes that don’t involve nuts.

Personally, my digestive system doesn’t seem to handle nuts to well, so I am putting forth my best effort in finding nut free recipes.  This salad is full of flavor, and it is very filling!  You could easily add your own seasoning to it as well.  I just love cumin with the kale.

Look for kale with firm, deeply colored leaves and moist hardy stems. Kale should be displayed in a cool environment since warm temperatures will cause it to wilt and will negatively affect its flavor.

The leaves should look fresh, be unwilted, and be free from signs of browning, yellowing, and small holes. Choose kale with smaller-sized leaves since these will be more tender and have a more mild flavor than those with larger leaves.

Kale is available throughout the year, although it is more widely available, and at its peak, from the middle of winter through the beginning of spring.

To store, place kale in a plastic storage bag removing as much of the air from the bag as possible. Store in the refrigerator where it will keep for five days.

The longer it is stored, the more bitter its flavor becomes. Do not wash kale before storing because exposure to water encourages spoilage. I hope you enjoy this refreshing salad. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


6.5 oz kale, de-stemmed (this was 1 bunch)

1 Tbsp lemon juice, fresh

1/2 Tbsp cold pressed olive oil

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp onion, diced

1/4 tsp cumin, ground

1/8 tsp red pepper flakes

Cherry tomatoes, diced


Preparation:


Using a food processor: Stack the leaves, roll them up and stand them up in the feed tube (chute). Push down using even pressure with the food pusher as it makes its way through the chute.

Alternatively, you can hand chop the kale.




Remove kale, placing it into a medium-sized bowl and process the 2nd half of kale in the same manner. Place in the bowl with the other kale.

Add the salt, olive oil, and lemon juice.  This is a time to massage your kale.

Using your hands, literally, massage it.

This will cause it to break down making it more palatable and digestible.

The salt and lemon juice help to soften it as well.




Add the diced onion, cumin, red pepper flakes, cherry tomatoes and mix well.

Serve!  This will make 2 servings or 1 nice hearty salad for lunch or dinner.

Try topping the salad off with some Coconut “Bacon” Bits, which was delicious!

Other great additions: raisins, pine nuts, avocado!


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



