Marinated Mushroom Green Salad
https://nouveauraw.com/salads/marinated-mushroom-green-salad/



	Marinated Mushroom Green Salad

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

All things sweet set aside, I thought it was time to share a savory recipe with you.  I enjoy making salads but I never really think of sharing them on Nouveau Raw because they are so random and I figure that nobody wants a recipe for making a salad.

But then I got to thinking… “Who am I to assume?”  So here I am sharing this vibrant, vitamin and mineral packed, disease-fighting phytochemical, green leafy salad with you.

I will get to the mushrooms in a few minutes; I wanted to talk about the microgreens that I added to the salad. I have always been a lover of all things trial size and that is just what these greens are… Tiny adorable mini-sized greens that are prized for their tenderness and cuteness. And microgreens are rumored to pack even more nutrients than their adult versions. In fact, they say that they have four to six times more nutrients than the mature leaves of the same plant.

Are Microgreens Sprouts?

Microgreens are sometimes confused with sprouts, so we need to clear up the fact that they’re not the same thing. Sprouts are seeds germinated in water just long enough (usually 48 hours) to grow roots, a stem, and pale, underdeveloped leaves. Microgreens, on the other hand, need soil and sunlight and at least seven days to grow before you can harvest them.

As refreshing as a salad can be, it can sometimes cause a person to walk away from the table not quite satiated.  That’s why I brought in the Portobello mushrooms.  They have a sense of “meatiness” to them that give the overall salad that sixth sense of umami. Personally, I don’t care too much for raw mushrooms but once marinated, they take on a whole new “life” for me.   I recommend that you marinate them overnight so that they absorb the wonderful flavors from the liquid that they bathed in.

To round out the dish, I used the leftover marinade sauce to create a salad dressing.  This really brought everything thing together, giving it a hardy overall flavor, taking it from a side dish to a meal. I hope that you enjoy the recipe. Please comment below and have a blessed day! amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields 2-4 servings

Marinated Mushrooms:


2 large (275 g) Portobello mushrooms, sliced 1/2″ thick

1/2 cup raw coconut amino

1/2 cup cold-pressed olive oil

2 Tbsp raw agave nectar or maple syrup

2 tsp garlic powder

2 tsp Italian seasoning


Salad Dressing:


Marinade from the mushrooms

2 Tbsp Tahini

2 Tbsp cashews

2 Tbsp freshly chopped dill


Salad:


1 head lettuce, cut bite-sized

2 carrots, diced

2 Tbsp sliced leeks

1/4 cup sweet peas

1 cup micro greens


Preparation:

Marinated Mushrooms:


Wash, dry and remove the underneath gills of the mushroom.  Then slice about 1/2″ thick.

In a medium-sized bowl mix the: coconut amino, olive oil, sweetener, garlic powder, and Italian seasoning.

Add the mushrooms and gently toss, making sure that they are well coated.

Cover the bowl with plastic and place in the fridge overnight to soak.  The longer, the better.  Throughout the soak time, toss the mushrooms around making sure that every piece gets saturated with liquid.

Once ready to use, drain the mushrooms from the liquid, keeping the liquid for part of the salad dressing.


Salad & Dressing:


In the blender combine the marinade liquid, Tahini, cashews, and dill.  Blend until creamy.

In a large bowl,  mix the lettuce, carrots, leeks, and peas.  Add dressing and toss everything together, so the lettuce is well coated.  If you don’t plan on eating the whole salad in one sitting, apply the dressing as needed, so the lettuce doesn’t wilt.

Place the salad mix on the plate and sprinkle the micro greens on top of the salad. Add the sliced, marinated mushrooms in the center, and enjoy!



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



