Raw Shredded Jicama and Apple Salad with Citrus Dressing
https://nouveauraw.com/salads/shredded-jicama-and-apple-salad-with-citrus-dressing/



	Shredded Jicama and Apple Salad with Citrus Dressing

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I never quite understood New Years Resolutions. I understand that they can be beneficial when they are used as a “reset button”…. but why do we knowingly sabotage our own well-being, waiting for some future date to be our saving grace?

You know what I am talking about… those times when you eat something that is on your “no-no” list and you throw your hands up in the air and exclaim, “BAG IT! I blew it; I might as well eat whatever “crap” (pardon my language) I want because tomorrow (next week, at the beginning of the year) I will start over and eat better!”  Why do we give that one little “slip-up” the power to undo all the good work we do for our bodies?

Trust me, I have been guilty of this very thing in the past… but years ago when it came to my health and eating, I vowed to never use a future date as a guideline to better myself.  It’s all about learning to live in the present, in the moment, to tend to our very well-being as we speak.

I know it’s not easy, but our thought process is like a muscle memory that we need to exercise daily.  And just like exercising our body, it will get easier in time, and before you know it, it will just be an automatic thing.  If you need help, come here… there is a great support system here for you.  Even if you don’t eat a 100% raw diet, or even a high-raw diet… just adding fresh foods to whatever diet plan you are on can be rewarding.

Shew… where did that come from? lol,  When I sit down to share my recipes with you, I never quite know what I am going to share… just know that it all comes from the heart.   Many blessings and Happy New Year! amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 6 cups

Sauce:


1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup water

1/4 cup fresh Meyer lemon juice

2 Tbsp + 1 tsp blood orange juice

1 Tbsp raw apple cider vinegar


Salad:


2 cups peeled, shredded jicama

2 cups shredded pink lady apples (2 apples)

2 cups shredded carrots

1/2 cup raisins

1/2 cup chopped raw walnuts, soaked & dehydrated omit for nut-free


Preparation:

Sauce:


Let’s begin by making the sauce.  The cashews will need to be soaked for at least 2 hours.  This reduces the phytic acid which can be hard on the digestive system, plus the soaking softens them, so they blend into a creamy sauce.  (especially if you don’t have a high-powered blender).

After soaking the cashews, be sure to drain and discard the soak water.  Place the cashews in a blender.

Add the water, lemon & orange juice and the vinegar. Blend on high until it is completely creamy.  Set aside.


Salad:


In the food processor, shred the jicama, apples, and carrots with the appropriate shredding blade.  If you don’t have a good processor, you can use a handheld cheese grater or even a potato peeler.  Pour into a medium-sized mixing bowl.

Add raisins and walnuts… giving it a good toss.

Pour in the sauce, stirring everything together until everything is well coated.

Eat immediately.  If you want to savor this salad and spread it over a few days, keep the salad and sauce separated until you are ready to eat it.  Separately, they should keep for 2-3 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



