Teriyaki Cole Slaw
https://nouveauraw.com/salads/teriyaki-cole-slaw/



	Teriyaki Cole Slaw

													    
    


				 

– raw, vegan, gluten-free, soy-free –

One recipe, multiple uses… now that is my kind of recipe. Originally the sauce for this coleslaw started out as one that I first created for some kale chips. You can find the recipe for that deliciously sweet and savory snack (here).

At first, it seemed unfortunate that I had run out of kale before running out of sauce, but then again, this recipe wouldn’t have been born if that hadn’t been the case.

Bring on the Sauce

Obviously, the star of this dish is the sauce. With all of its sweet and savory Asian flair packed in there… it left me licking the spoon, dish, and the countertop (dropped some… no shame here).

I immediately thought of making a fresh and crisp coleslaw with the sauce, but trust me you can utilize this recipe in many different applications.

For starters, it’s a fantastic way to make use of leftover vegetables, rice, and quinoa. You could even take it to the next level by thinning it with either water or almond milk, thus creating a salad dressing. Toss it with your favorite greens, sprinkle on some sesame seeds, and open your world to new flavors. Trust me you’re going to keep this recipe close by; it’s your ticket to a fast, easy, delicious meals.

This technique is great to implement when working in the kitchen. One sauce, three applications! It’s like that ol’ saying, “Work smarter, not harder.” I hope you enjoy this refreshing recipe. Please share a comment below. blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

Yields: 4 cups with extra sauce.


1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hours 



1/2 cup water

1/4 cup raw agave nectar or equivalent

3 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

2 Tbsp coconut aminos

2 Tbsp onion powder

1 tsp grated fresh ginger or 1 tsp ginger juice

3 small cloves garlic, crushed

1/8 tsp cayenne

1 Tbsp toasted sesame oil

4 cup shredded coleslaw


Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the water.

The soaking process helps to soften the cashews so they will blend into a creamy texture.

It also helps to reduce phytic acid which can be hard on the digestive system.




In a high-powered blender combine the; cashews, water, sweetener, lemon juice, tamari, and spices. Blend until the sauce is creamy smooth. Once the sauce is smooth, drizzle in the oil and blend just until incorporated.

Due to the volume and the creamy texture that we are going after, it is important to use a high-powered blender.  It could be too taxing on a lower-end model.

Create a vortex in the blender; this will help ensure that the sauce is getting fully blended into a creamy texture.

What is a vortex?  Look into the container from the top and slowly increase the speed from low to high, the batter will form a small vortex (or hole) in the center. High-powered machines have containers that are designed to create a controlled vortex, systematically folding ingredients back to the blades for smoother blends and faster processing… instead of just spinning ingredients around, hoping they find their way to the blades.

If your machine isn’t powerful enough or built to do this, you may need to stop the unit often to scrape down the sides.

This process can take 1-3 minutes, depending on the strength of the blender. Keep your hand cupped around the base of the blender carafe to feel for warmth. If the batter is getting too warm, stop the machine and let it cool, then proceed once cooled.




Toss 1 cup of sauce with the 4 cups of slaw makings. Enjoy right away.

Dress only what you can eat.

The sauce should keep for 3-4 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



