Chili "Cheese" Spiced Dried Corn Nibblers (raw, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/chili-cheese-spiced-dried-corn-nibblers/



	Chili “Cheese” Spiced Dried Corn Nibblers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Have any of you eaten those Chili Cheese Flavored Fritos? My mind might be playing tricks on me, but that is what these corn nibblers remind me of.   I went in search to see just what those Fritos are made of and all I can say is, “Thank God that I don’t eat those anymore!”

How do I, a raw food chef know what Fritos taste like? Well, I wasn’t a health conscience eater for the first 35 years of life, and Fritos landed in my grocery cart many of times.

I remember my mom would make her famous Chili and then put a layer of those chips on top… it was a favorite of mine. But thank goodness, I don’t eat that way anymore. Look at the list of ingredients that I was putting into my body!

Here is the ingredient list of flavored Fritos:Whole corn, corn oil, salt, whey, spices, cheddar cheese (cultured milk, salt, enzymes), whey protein concentrate, wheat flour, tomato powder, monosodium glutamate (MSG), sodium caseinate, partially hydrogenated soybean oil, Romano cheese from cow’s milk (cultured pasteurized part skim milk, salt, enzymes), dextrose, onion powder, sugar, natural flavor, butter (cream, salt), disodium phosphate, buttermilk solids, citric acid, garlic powder, artificial colors, lactic acid, disodium inosinate, and disodium guanylate. 

And to think I did it with four ingredients. :) Ok, so they aren’t an exact replica, but hey, for me they take the place of ever needing to eat Fritos again. These nibblers are great for snacking or even for sprinkling on a salad for a splash of flavor and crunch.

Ingredients:

yields 2 cups

Corn soak:


8 cups organic corn, fresh or frozen

2 Tbsp Himalayan pink salt


Add-ins:


2 Tbsp chili powder

3 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Place the corn kernels and salt in a large bowl and add enough water to cover the corn.  Stir and cover. Allow the corn to sit overnight in the fridge.

When ready to make, drain the water from the corn through a strainer.  I did not rinse the corn.  Put the corn back into the bowl.

Add the chili powder, nutritional yeast, and additional salt.  Toss until the corn is well coated.

Spread 2-3 cups of corn on the mesh sheets that come with the dehydrator.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 4-6 hours or until dry.

Package the corn as soon as possible after cooling.  Store in airtight containers and keep it in the cupboard, pantry, refrigerator or freezer for future use. Dried corn has a shelf life of about 1 year.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



