"Napa Garden Veggie Confetti Party Mix" (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/napa-garden-veggie-confetti-party-mix/



	Napa Garden Veggie Confetti Party Mix

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

We love granolas, we love trail mixes… but to be honest, most are on the sweet side, and very few are on the savory side.

Savory Snack n’ Go

So, the other day, I created a savory mix.  I have been pleasantly surprised by all the fun ways that we have been using this mix.  Not only has it served as a snicker-snack for my never-ending, grazing husband… but I use it to sprinkle on salads and to top my Black Sesame Cheesy Chipotle Nori Crisps.

To season my party mix, I used a premixed seasoning made by Homemade Dressings.  I put a link for it below in the ingredient list.  I love all of their seasoning mixes.  They are 100% natural, no added sugars, and are gluten-free.  This particular mix is made of tomato, basil, and garlic.  So, if you don’t have that particular seasoning, you can use your own and spice it up to your taste.

Even just salting it tastes great.  Sweet and salty is a combination that can be very satisfying to the ole’ pallet. You don’t want to over dry this mixture. Otherwise, the corn and peas can turn into pebbles.

Also, make sure that you taste test the products that you use.  Make sure they are of good quality and ripe in flavor.  If they are flavorless, to begin with, they will remain that way to the end. I hope you enjoy this trail mix. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 5 cups


2 cups fresh, organic corn kernels

2 cups fresh peas

2 cups sliced carrots

1 cup sunflower seeds, soaked

1 cup pistachios, soaked

1 1/2 – 2 Tbsp Italian seasoning

1 cup raisins


Preparation:


Soak, drain, and rinse the sunflower seeds and pistachios.  Add to a large bowl.

Add corn kernels, peas, sliced carrots, and seasoning.  Toss together until everything is well coated.  Note – I sliced my carrots on my mandolin set to 1.5 mm slices.

Spread the mix on the mesh sheets that come with the dehydrator and dry at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 (F) degrees for 8 -/+ hours or until dry.

Once the mix has cooled to room temp, place in a bowl, and add raisins.  Toss together.

Store in an airtight container on the counter for 2-4 weeks.  Maybe longer.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



