Chipotle Lime Nori Snacks (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/chipotle-lime-nori-snacks/



	Chipotle Lime Nori Snacks

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

When I created this recipe, I thought to myself, “Oh, Amie Sue… these will make a wonderful pantry staple! I can make these up and keep Bob happy (in the snack department) for a while.”

Well, if that wasn’t a joke. I barely had them around long enough to cut them up and take photos. I guess that is a good thing though. It just touches my heart when I see him get so excited over food… especially when it’s so darn healthy and good for you. If I have to make them every day… I will; it is worth it.

If you aren’t familiar with nori, they are basically sheets of seaweed. Nori is the Japanese name for a flavorful, crunchy, and dried paper-thin red seaweed. So, in case you are wondering… they do taste a bit like the ocean, but just a tiny bit.

These nori snacks have a smoky flavor with a bite of heat and are crisp and snap went bent.  To really bring out all the flavors, I recommend sprinkling coarse sea salt on top before sliding them into the dehydrator.

The key to working with nori in a recipe like this is to make sure that you work quickly. When Nori is wet, it softens and wrinkles. So, work on one sheet at a time. Place the wet batter on top and quickly spread to the edges.

While drying, the edges will curl a tad, I just trimmed those off, and Bob gobbled them up. Other than that, they are so easy to make and will give a great boost of protein, and fiber. Plus sea vegetables are the plant world’s premier source of iodine, which is needed to support the thyroid, so snack on.  I hope you enjoy this recipe and please comment below. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:



1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

3/4 cup water

2 tsp lime zest

1 – 2 Tbsp fresh lime juice

1/2 tsp ground cumin

1/2 tsp chili powder

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp ground black pepper

1/2 tsp chipotle powder or smoked paprika powder

few drops of siracha

4 sheets of nori



Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse well

.

In a high-powered blender combine the cashews, water, lime zest, lime juice, cumin, chili powder, salt, pepper, smoked paprika, and siracha.  Blend until the mixture is completely smooth and you don’t feel any grit.

Place 4 nori sheets out on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

I don’t recommend that you do this on a different surface hoping to transfer them to the dehydrator trays… they get too soft and are hard to move once the sauce goes on.  I speak from experience. :)

Be sure to face the rougher side of the nori sheet, upright.




Place approximately 1/3 – 1/2 of a cup of sauce in the center of a nori sheet.  With an offset spatula spread the sauce evenly from side to side.  Do them one at a time.

Sprinkle coarse sea salt on top.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 (F) for 6-10 hours or until dry.

Once cooled to room temperature cut into long strips with a sharp knife.  These should keep for at least 1 week.

The edges do curl a little after they are done drying. If you want them to look pretty for presentation, just slice the edges off and enjoy them as payment for your hard work. :)





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



