Chipotle Cheese Broccoli Nibblers (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/chipotle-cheese-broccoli-nibblers/



	Chipotle Cheese Broccoli Nibblers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I have to admit a deep dark secret… I have been holding out on you!  I have been making broccoli nibblers for almost two years now and haven’t shared the recipe.  Gulp, my bad.  I had every intention to, and I had this recipe written up as a posting, but it got lost in the shuffle.  Better late than never?

Hard to believe that broccoli can become an addictive snack isn’t it? I am here to say that is possible and probable!  I haven’t formed a 12 step program for those who do become addictive, so you have been warned… you are on your own.

The key to making broccoli nibblers is to heavily coat the florets with sauce. A light coating just won’t suffice, and the end result will just be plain boring.

As you can see in the photo to the right… that is already dehydrated and look at that coating?! It is cheesy tasting due to the nutritional yeast and has a subtle bite from the chipotle powder.

Be sure to dehydrate them all the way through to get that crunch factor. You will also want to make sure that they are well protected from humidity by placing them in an airtight container. I hope you enjoy this recipe, Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1 1/4 cups water

2 Tbsp lemon juice

2 cups cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1/2 Tbsp chipotle powder

1/2 Tbsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp chopped garlic

1 Tbsp sunflower lecithin, ground

12 cups broccoli florets


Preparation:


Prepare the broccoli by breaking it into medium-sized florets.  Snack-size.  They will shrink a little bit during the drying process.

Using a high-speed blender, combine the following ingredients in this order:  water, lemon juice, cashews (be sure to drain and discard the water), yeast, chipotle, salt, garlic, and lecithin.

Blend until it creates a very smooth and creamy sauce.

This can take up to 5 minutes, depending on your blender.

Stop the blender every so often and scrape the sides down.

To test the creaminess, rub some of the cheese sauce between your thumb and forefinger.  If you feel grit, continue blending.




Once smooth and creamy add the lecithin.  Be sure to grind the lecithin into a powder in a spice grinder before using it.  Or if you can use soy, you can try the sunflower lecithin.  It comes in a liquid form, and you would just use the same measurement.

Measure out 2 cups of cheese sauce.   Store the remaining sauce in an air-tight container in the fridge.  It will last up to 5 days.

Pour the sauce over the broccoli and massage the sauce lightly into the broccoli, making sure everything is well coated.

Place coated broccoli on the teflex sheets that comes with the dehydrator.  You can place it on the mesh screen, but for the ease of cleanup, I recommend the teflex sheets.

Sprinkle the broccoli with sea salt.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees 6-8 hours, or until dry.

Store in an air-tight container.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



