Spicy Cheese Broccoli Nibblers (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/spicy-cheese-broccoli-nibblers/



	Spicy Cheese Broccoli Nibblers

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Update:  I have been doing some “Spring cleaning (in the winter)” in the Nouveau Raw library of recipes, and I found this one that I created almost 2 years ago but failed to share!

Mercy Amie Sue, where are your manners?!  I just can’t keep up with myself sometimes. Lol  So, the write-up on this recipe may seem a little out-of-order in my timeline of releasing recipes.  The important thing is that I am sharing it now… right? :) Am I forgiven?

This recipe may sound odd to you at first, but you will just have to trust me when I say that it turned out yummy!  About a week ago I went through my fridge, looking to see what was needing to be used up.  I had a huge bag of broccoli staring right at me.  I pulled it out and sat it on the counter.

What to do, what to do?  I have some great recipes for marinating it for different dishes, but it would still have left me with oodles left over.   Then I  had a crazy hair-brained idea… coat it with my spicy cheese sauce, and through it in the dehydrator.

So I proceeded to break the broccoli into small florets.  After it was all said and done, I had 24 cups worth!   I whipped up a double batch of the cheese sauce and poured it over the florets.

I will admit that the picture above isn’t really mouth-watering looking, but these came out YUMMY!   They are awesome to have around when you are looking for a savory snack.   I encourage you to give these little nibblers a try!

Ingredients:


2 red bell peppers, seeded and roughly chopped

2 jalapeno peppers, seeded and roughly chopped or 1 1/2 tsp  red pepper flakes

2 Tbsp lemon juice

1 Tbsp water

2 cup raw cashews, soaked for 2+ hours

3 Tbsp nutritional yeast

2 small garlic clove

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

24 cups broccoli florets


Preparation:


Add the bell peppers, jalapeños, lemon juice, and water into a high-speed blender.  Blend until the pepper is broken done nicely.

Add the cashews, nutritional yeast, garlic, and salt, then again blend until smooth.  This can take up to 3-5 minutes, depending on the blender.  Stop every once in a while to scrape the sides down.

Put the broccoli in a large bowl then pour the blended mixture over it and gently massage it in until all the florets are coated.

Place it on the teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator, sprinkle with salt and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 6-8 hrs.  If they aren’t crispy enough, leave them in a bit longer.

Store in an airtight container on the counter for 1-2 weeks.  This will depend on dry you made them in the dehydrator and the humidity level in your house.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



