Honey Mustard Pretzels (raw, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/honey-mustard-pretzels/



	Honey Mustard Pretzels

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free ~

Some people like to dip their pretzels in honey, others like mustard…  why not bring the two together?  This isn’t new news, Honey Mustard Pretzels have been on the market for years, BUT not in the raw form.

For this recipe, I ended up using organic yellow mustard because I had it on hand.  But to keep your recipe completely raw, you must try making the Sweet & Spicy Mustard which is amazing!

Mustard seeds are an excellent source of selenium and manganese. They are also a good source of omega-3 fatty acids, magnesium, phosphorus, and tryptophan.

Truthfully, I never really thought much about mustard being a healthy food.  But then when we create healthy recipes, it is always our goal to build the nutrient level with each individual ingredient.  So now we can add mustard to the mix… literally.

Did you know that mustard can be used in hot compress preparation to help reduce the impact of strains and sprains in the body? They can also be used in poultices and plasters which can be massaged onto the chest helping decongest blocked sinuses and lungs?  So next time you roll over and your spouse smells like mustard, they are either eating Honey Mustard Pretzels in bed or using the magic of mustard to heal!

This recipe was released in 2013, but I updated the photos and thought I would bump it up on the snack list. :) 

Ingredients:


2 cups moist almond pulp

2 Tbsp ground flax-seed

3 Tbsp yellow mustard or raw mustard

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 cup almond butter

1 cup almond milk

5 tsp coconut aminos

3 Tbsp raw honey

1 tsp vanilla extract


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with an “S” blade, pulse together the almond pulp, ground flaxseed, and salt.

Add mustard, almond butter, almond milk, aminos, honey, and vanilla.  Process until everything is well combined.


Piping the pretzels:


You will need a disposable piping bag and a 1/2″ piping tip.

Place the piping tip in the bag and cut the tip off so the tip pokes through but is nice and snug in the bag.  If the hole is too big, the tip will shoot right out once you apply pressure to the bag.

Once you have the tip in place, slide the bag into a tall glass, and fold the edges over the glass rim.   This will create a stand, and it will make it easy to fill it with the batter.  I posted the photos below.




Fill the piping bag with batter, about 3/4 quarter of the way full.

Work all of the air bubbles out of the bag so that it doesn’t “burp” while creating a line of dough.

You will need to re-load the bag 1-2 times throughout the process.




Place a teflex sheet on the mesh sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Hold the bag at a 22 1/2 degree angle and with steady, consistent pressure, squeeze the batter out, and slowly slide the tip down the teflex sheet.

Don’t go too fast and cause the line to break and don’t go too slow which will cause bulges.  You will quickly get the hang of it.

Create solid lines from one side of the tray to the other.  I have an Excalibur dehydrator that has large square trays.




Sprinkle coarse sea salt on top and lightly press it into the dough.  Because we are not using yeast these pretzels won’t rise causing the dough to grab onto the salt, so we have to help it a little. :)

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour to set the “outer crust.”

Cut into 1″ pieces and then place them on the mesh sheet.

Continue drying at 115 degrees (F) for 6-8 hours or until dry.

They do firm up a tad more once they cool.




Store in an airtight container for up to a week.  If they soften before eaten, pop them back into the dehydrator to firm them up.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn how to make your own raw almond butter by clicking (here).

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).

Aminos is a gluten-free, soy-free… soy sauce substitute.  There are many other comparable products that you can use. Click (here) to learn more about them.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



