Curry Spiced Macadamia Nuts
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/curry-spiced-macadamia-nuts/



	Curry Spiced Macadamia Nuts

													    
    


				

 ~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, grain-free~

These Curry Spiced Macadamia Nuts are great to have on hand for quick, healthy snacks. Though some people are afraid of their high-fat content, it’s good to know that the fats in macadamia nuts actually have many health benefits.

They are a concentrated source of monounsaturated fat and contain omega 3 fatty acids which, when eaten regularly may help displace sources of cholesterol-raising saturated fats in the diet. (source)

Macadamia nuts are one of the only food sources that contain palmitoleic acid which is an omega-7 monounsaturated fatty acid which has been shown to help speed up fat metabolism, thus reducing the body’s ability to store fat. Somebody pass me THAT bowl!  We know those healthy fats are good for us, BUT because of those fats, we have to make sure they are fresh and not rancid.

One thing to keep in mind when making these savory curry flavored nuts is that you need to start off with fresh macadamia nuts. This goes without saying… but apparently, I feel the need to… this goes for any recipe and any ingredient used. You can’t mask bad tasting food.

So how does one know if their macadamia nuts have gone bad? Although this isn’t a perfect way to test, your nose is usually the most reliable instrument to tell. Rancid nuts smell bad. The best way to describe the odor is that spoiled nuts smell like paint. It’s a distinct and unpleasant odor.  Get used to smelling the ingredients you use. After a while, you will be able to discern what is good and what is bad. If your nose isn’t telling you the full story, it’s time to give them a taste test. Rancid macadamia nuts will often develop a bitter, unpleasant taste.

If you have a good eye, you can generally see when they have gone rancid as well. Often they will appear shriveled, dry or moldy.  So sharpen those sensory skills that you have. It’s like working a muscle… and over time, you will have a sharpened skill set at your disposal. :)


Storage conditions will determine how fresh they stay. To maximize the shelf life of shelled macadamia nuts, store them in cool, dry area. Once the package of nuts has been opened, put them in a sealed airtight container  (I like to use freezer safe mason jars) or put the original package in a resealable heavy-duty freezer bag and store in the fridge or freezer. I am not willing to risk my small-fortune-macadamia-nut-investment, so I store them in the freezer.

Here’s an interesting warning if you own dogs: “Ingestion of macadamia nuts by dogs has been associated with a nonfatal syndrome characterized by vomiting, ataxia, weakness, hyperthermia, and depression. Dogs are the only species in which signs have been reported.” (source)

Well, let’s get rolling into the kitchen and whip up some of these heavenly healthy nut snacking treats. Please be sure to comment below. I would love to hear from you. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 1/4 cups


1/2 Tbsp olive oil

1 1/4 cups raw macadamia nuts, soaked

2 tsp raw coconut crystals

1/2 tsp curry powder

1/2 tsp ground cumin

1/2 tsp ground coriander

1/2 tsp chili powder

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp cayenne pepper, more to taste


Preparation:


After soaking the macadamia nuts, drain and discard the soak water.

In a ziplock baggie combine the; coconut crystals, curry, cumin, coriander, chili powder, salt, and cayenne.  Close the bag and shake the ingredients together.

In another baggie or bowl, toss the macadamia nuts with the olive oil, making sure to coat each one.

Do not add the oil directly into the spices, it will just turn to a paste and won’t evenly coat the macadamia nuts.




Add the coated nuts to the spice bag, not the other way around.  If you do, the spices will fight to stick to the oil that collected on the inside walls of the bag or bowl.

Pour the coated nuts onto the non-stick sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Try not to handle them with your fingers. Otherwise, your fingers will start to remove the seasoned coating.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 (F) for 10+ hours, or until crunchy.

Once cooled, store in a glass mason jar for a week, any longer, I would stash in the freezer due to the high-volume of natural oils in the macadamia nuts.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



