Cauliflower Popcorn (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/savory-treats/cauliflower-popcorn/



	Cauliflower Popcorn

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Well, last night I made some more Cauliflower “Popcorn”.  My first attempt was during culinary school in the late evening.  I made the mistake of separating the cauliflower florets into very small pieces.  They dehydrated into pieces that were about 1/2 the size of my pinkie nail.  It didn’t affect the amazing flavor but sadly they didn’t last long. :)

So last night I used 2 heads of cauliflower but left them in larger sections. Come this morning they still had shrunk to very small pieces.  What had been two heads only filled a quart jar about 3/4 of the way.  Tonight Bob and I (well mostly Bob) polished off that jar.  Now we are sitting here on the edge of our seats….”Hmmm, do you suppose once all that cauliflower hits our tummies it will rehydrate and expand back to the original size?? haha”

Tonight Bob and I (well mostly Bob) polished off that jar.  Now we are sitting here on the edge of our seats….”Hmmm, do you suppose once all that cauliflower hits our tummies it will rehydrate and expand back to the original size?? haha”

One head of Cauliflower – gone!

If not careful, you can consume a whole head of cauliflower in one sitting with this stuff.  It is very addicting.  Granted, it’s good for you but you have to remember that eating high amounts of dehydrated foods can be very drying on your stomach.  So be sure to always increase your water intake when eating this.

New to Nutritional Yeast?

You don’t want to use just any type of yeast out there. I have even tried several different brands of the nutritional yeast and found that I enjoy the Red Star brand above all.  The yeast is what gives this treat that cheesy flavor, so use as little or as much as you like.  You should know it can often affect the color of your… bathroom trips. If you know what I mean.

Besides the taste, it is also an excellent source of protein (52%), containing essential amino acids. It is gluten-free and rich in vitamins, especially the B-complex vitamins. An excellent source of folic acid, which is important for formation, growth, and reproduction of red blood cells. You just gotta love a guilt-free snack?!

Ingredients:


2 heads cauliflower, sectioned into small-medium florets

1/4 tsp Himalayan pink salt

2 Tbsp cold pressed olive oil

Nutritional Yeast


Preparation:


Place the florets in a large bowl and sprinkle on the salt and toss lightly with your hands.

Drizzle the olive oil over the top and again toss with hands.

Now sprinkle a heavy dose of Red Star (I recommend this brand) over the top, toss with hands….add another layer of yeast, toss with hand.  Do this about 4x. You will use more yeast than you would expect.

Spread it out on the mesh dehydrator screens and dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for about 12 – 16 hours.  Dry times can vary.

Store (yea right) but just in case you have leftovers, store in an airtight container for a few days on the counter.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



