Orange Cream Party Cheesecakes
https://nouveauraw.com/small-bites/orange-cream-party-cheesecakes/



	Orange Cream Party Cheesecakes

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This is an old-time recipe that has been on the site for years, but I wanted to share some inspiration with you. Whenever you look at a recipe, try to think of other ways that you can use it or present it.

This time around I served this cheesecake in small sample sized cups. In fact, I used  “Big Party Pack” 2 oz shot glasses to be exact. They are perfect. Without touching them, they look like they could be glass, they are super sturdy, and you could reuse them many times over if you wanted. (I do). When washing mini cups, you need mini fingers and mini washcloths. hehe

I recommend sample sizes when presenting many different types of desserts. This way everyone can enjoy the flavor of each dessert and not get too full on just one.

Over the years we have thrown a lot of parties, and one thing that I am forever trying to fine tune is just how much food to make without having too little or too much left over.

In this particular case, I found that these samples are a no-brainer. Especially when making up raw cheesecakes. You can make them up ahead of time and slip them into the freezer. There they will patiently wait for you.  Since they thaw fairly quick (because they are so small), you can take them out on an as-need basis. Therefore, should you have any leftovers you can just keep them tucked in the freezer.  No waste at all.

For these little gems, I decorated them with mandarin orange slices and a sprig of fresh mint. For this last gathering, I pulled the mini cheesecakes out from the freezer, added the orange slices, covered them and tucked them in the fridge. Another step completed before the big event. Then on the day of the party, I added the fresh mint. I know you might be tempted to do it a day ahead of time, but don’t. Fresh mint wilts and we don’t want any sad greens lounging around on our pretty cheesecakes. I hope you found this helpful. Blessings, amie sue


Ingredients:

Yields 30 (3 Tbsp (45 g) filling per cup
Crust: 


1/2 cup (70 g) rolled, gluten-free oats

1 cup (137 g) cashews or almonds, soaked and skinned

2/3 cup (60 g) shredded coconut

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp (1 g) liquid stevia

6 Tbsp (102g) coconut butter, softened



Cheesecake filling:


3 cups (407 g) raw cashews, soaked for 2 hours

2 cups (480 g) fresh orange juice

1/4 cup (65 g) maple syrup

2 tsp (10 g) vanilla extract

1/4 tsp (2 g) Himalayan pink salt

3 Tbsp (19 g)  lecithin, ground or liquid

3/4 cup (148 g) coconut oil, melted



Preparation:

Crust:


In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, pulse the oats, almonds into small pieces.

Add coconut, stevia, coconut butter, and salt.

Process all ingredients until the crust starts to rise up the sides of the bowl.

Be sure to stop and scrape down the sides.




Line 30 party cups up on a baking pan with edges.

The pan will help with transporting the desserts to the fridge or freezer.

I use cambros a lot for my food storage, which you will see below in the photos. They fit nicely in the fridge and freezer and come with tight-fitting lids. You can find these at restaurant supply stores.




Roll 1 tsp (8 g) of the crust batter into a ball and place it in the bottom of each cup.

Once done, use another cup to press the ball into a crust shape. Don’t press too hard; we don’t want it compacted in there.

Dip the bottom of the cup in water after you press every other crust. This will prevent the crust from sticking to the bottom of the cup that you are using to shape the crusts. I hope that makes sense. :)




Set aside while you make the cheesecake batter.



Filling:


After soaking the cashews, drain and rinse.

You can skip the soaking process if pressed for time. If you do, you can omit the lecithin, though I still recommend it for the health benefits.

Soaking the cashews will make them softer to blend and reduce the phytic acid in them.

Do not skip the soaking process if you don’t own a high powered blender.




Add to a high-speed blender; cashews, orange juice, maple syrup, vanilla, and salt.  Blend until creamy.

This can take 3-5 minutes depending on your machine.  Step occasionally to test for grittiness.  Feel grit?  Keep blending.




While the blender is running and a vortex is formed, drizzle in the coconut oil and lecithin.  Resume blending until all is well incorporated.

Pour 3 Tbsp of the filling into each party cup.

Lightly tap the pan on the counter top to help work out any air bubbles that may be trapped in the batter.




Place in the fridge overnight to chill or in the freezer.  Remove and decorate.

Storage – Keep the samplers in the fridge or freezer when you are not eating them.  It will keep for 3-5 days in the fridge or 1-2 months in the freezer.  Be sure to seal it well so it doesn’t absorb fridge odors.



		
		
			
				
			
				
				Place the crust balls into each cup.
				
			
				
			
				
				With an empty cup, press the crust flat.
				

			
				
			
				
				This is what it should look like. 
				
			
				
			
				
				Create the filling and pour into each cup.
				

			
				
			
				
				Leave some space at the top if you wish to decorate them.
				
			
				
			
				
				I topped mine with mandarine orange slices
				

		


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



