Orange Romaine Smoothie - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/orange-romaine-smoothie/



	Orange Romaine Smoothie

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This smoothie was refreshing and light tasting.  I did add a bit of Valencia Orange flavored Stevia drops to it, but it isn’t needed.

I tend to turn to my green smoothies for cleaning the pipes. :)  Psyllium husk powder is a well-known aid for irregularity, but ground psyllium husks added to smoothies do more than just provide fiber. They also regulate appetite and fat absorption in ways that make smoothies diet food.

Psyllium

Psyllium fiber imparts a thick texture to smoothies that regulates two different hormones that keep you from getting hungry. It speeds the movement of digested food through your digestive tract.

The soluble fibers in psyllium husk powder can help relieve constipation and/or diarrhea, as well as bloating and gas, common in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The insoluble fibers in bran often make IBS worse, particularly in the beginning of treatment.

Smoothie Tips

Blending fruits and vegetables together breaks down the cells of plants and improves digestibility. BUT even with that, be sure to chew your smoothies.  The chewing process starts the release of the saliva in your mouth.  The mixture of saliva and your food is where digestion begins.  This is a very healthy habit to get into.  It may feel strange at first, but soon it will become an automatic response.

If you are Bee-gan (vegan that doesn’t consume bee products) you can skip it. It is packed with live enzymes, as well as phytonutrients, including co-enzymes, bioflavonoids, phytosterols, and carotenoids.  In order to preserve enzymatic and nutrient value, do not expose bee pollen to heat. There are many incredible health benefits to bee pollen. You can read more on a quick post that I did (here).

Ingredients:


2 Tbsp chia seeds

1 cup water

8 oz romaine lettuce

7 1/2 oz orange segments

5 oz apple, peel included, cored

1 tsp vanilla

1 tsp bee pollen, optional

1 tsp Ceylon cinnamon

1 Tbsp psyllium husk

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Soak the chia seeds in 1 cup of water for about 15 minutes in the blender carafe.  Enough for them to swell up.

The first thing to add to your blender is the liquid.  This will the greens move more freely when blending.

Start with 1 cup.  After everything is added, feel free to add more if desired.

The more liquid you add the more watery or runnier the smoothie will be.




Add the lettuce and blend until the greens are broken down.

Blending in stages prevents chunks.




Add the orange, apples, vanilla, bee pollen, cinnamon, psyllium, and salt.  Blend until smooth.

I always recommend frozen bananas over fresh.  Make a habit out of storing overripe, peeled bananas in the freezer for future smoothies.

A dash of a high-quality salt will increase the minerals and improve the taste of your smoothie.

It’s important to understand that the psyllium husk powder you use must be thoroughly blended into the smoothie.

A good green smoothie should be perfectly smooth.




Optional – Add ice

Always add the ice last, otherwise, you may over blend the ice, and it will make your smoothie watery rather than frosty.




 Learn how to design your own smoothies by reading through my, Template for Designing Smoothie Recipes.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



