Assortment of Juice Recipes - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/assortment-of-juice-recipes/



	Nourishing and Quick Juice/Smoothie Recipes

													    
    


				I created this post to give you some fresh ideas on how to produce fruit and veggie flavor combinations.  In general, I find that most fruits and veggies blend (or juice) well together, but you want to be careful with the green bitters if you are new to this. They can quickly overpower a recipe and turn your smile upside down.


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

How to Reduce Bitterness

Bananas are the go-to when it comes to blended drinks. They are excellent for covering the taste of greens if you have a hard time getting it down, and they create a thick creamy texture. Make sure your bananas are ripe, this is when your body can digest them, and they are nice and sweet.  I let the bananas ripen on the counter; then, I freeze them.  To freeze them, you will want to peel them first, lay them out in a single layer on a baking sheet, freeze them, and once solid place them in a large freezer-safe container.  This process makes it easy to always have ripe bananas on hand and makes the smoothie creamy and cold.  To learn how to create smoothie without bananas, click (here).

Fresh Lemons are another great item to add to green drinks to help reduce the bitterness. You can add them to smoothies or green juices. Fresh lemon juice is much better than the store-bought. But use whatever you can at the time. We want our drinks to nourish our bodies as well as taste delicious!

The following section is some Smoothie Ideas. Blend in a blender and enjoy!

Sweet & Sour


4 Fuji apples, sliced

2 medium lemons without peel

1 banana, peeled

1 bunch parsley

1 cup spinach

1 stalk celery

Small piece ginger

1/2 avocado seed



Pineapple, Grape, Green Smoothie


3 cups Spinach

1 cups grapes

1 cups Pineapple

1/2 cups filtered water



Pear-Kale-Mint


4 ripe pears

4-5 leaves of kale

1/2 bunch of mint

Water



Finger Banana-Spinach


10 finger-bananas

2 handfuls of spinach

Water



Bosc Pear-Raspberry-Kale


3 bosc pears

1 handful of raspberries

4-5 leaves of kale

Water



Quite Combination Ideas:


2-3 cups any greens of your choice, 2 cups papaya, 2 oranges, 3 dates

1 handful lettuce leaves, 1 handful mint, 4 bananas, 1/2 cup water

1/2 bunch romaine lettuce, 1 cup strawberries, 2 bananas, water

4-5 kale leaves, 4 apples, 1/2 lemon juiced, water

2 big handfuls mixed baby greens, 2 pears, 2 mangoes, 1 cup fresh or frozen blueberries

choc-mint – 2 cups spinach, 10-12 mint leaves, 3 bananas, 2 Tbs. carob powder, 1 cup water

1 handful of spinach, 2 stalks of celery, 2 bananas, 2 pears, 1 apple, 1 cup water

1 small handful of spinach, 2 cups arugula, 2-3 mangoes, 1 cup water

1/2 head romaine lettuce, 1 small pineapple, 1 large mango, 1-inch fresh ginger



Chocolate Banana Orange Smoothie


2 frozen bananas

juice of 3 oranges

1 HEAPING Tbsp cacao powder



Below are Juicing recipes. Push all ingredients through a juicer and enjoy!

Lemon~Lime Ginger Ale

(Serves 1)


1 apple, cored and sliced

1/4 lemon

1/2 inch fresh ginger (less if you find

the taste too strong)

1/2 lime

a handful of grapes

sparkling mineral water



Gingered Apple Cider

(Serves 1)


1-inch piece ginger

3 apples or 1 cup apple cider



Peach~Pear~Apple Juice

(Serves 1)


2 peaches, remove the seed

1 apple, cored and sliced

1 pear, sliced



Fruit Punch

(Serves 1)


6 strawberries, fresh or thawed from frozen

1 apple, cored and sliced

1/2 orange, peeled and sectioned



Fruit Nectar


1 orange, peeled and sectioned

1/2 cup raspberries, fresh or thawed from frozen

1 nectarine, pitted and sliced



Sparkling Tropical Fruit

(Serves 1)


1 kiwi, peeled

1/2 mango, peeled and sliced

1 orange, peeled and sectioned

sparkling mineral water



Process the fruit in a juicer.

Pour the juice into a large glass and fill to the top with sparkling water and serve.



Blueberry~Cherry Juice

(Serves 1)


a handful of cherries, pitted

3/4 cup blueberries

1 apple, cored and sliced



More Fruit Juice Recipe Ideas …


1 cup strawberries

2 med. apples

1 tsp. lemon juice




1/2 red grapefruit

1 med. orange

2 handfuls cranberries




1 pear

1 peach

1 apple




1 orange

1 mango

1 apple



VEGETABLE JUICE RECIPES

Cucumber~Celery Cooler


1 apple, sliced

4 medium carrots, greens removed

1 stalk celery

1/2 lemon, peeled (optional)

1/4 medium cucumber, peeled



Garden Salad


1 apple

3 medium carrots, greens removed

1/2 green pepper, sweet

4 leaves romaine lettuce

1/2 lemon, peeled (optional)

1 tomato



Calcium Drink


1/2 cup fresh broccoli pieces

1 apple

3 medium carrots, greens removed

small handful fresh parsley

1/2 lemon, peeled (optional)



Sweet Potato Carrot Juice


2 medium carrots, greens removed

1 celery stalk

1 small sweet potato

1 apple

1/2 lemon, peeled (optional)


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



