Golden Turmeric Almond Milk
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/glolden-turmeric-almond-milk/



	Golden Turmeric Almond Milk

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, Paleo, alkaline ~

There are many variations of golden milk that you can try, so far, this one is my favorite.  With its warm yellow-gold color, earthy scent, and peppery taste, this beautifully spiced drink is perfect for autumn, a time of year when we should all be boosting our immune systems and warming our bodies from the inside out.  But let’s not limit this golden milk to just Fall… I know that I won’t be.

Almond Milk

Blending turmeric in with almond milk not only adds a beautiful creamy base, but it also adds additional health benefits. And isn’t this our goal… to make the foods we consume more healthy!?  I have a lot of criteria for food, and that is high on the list.

Almonds are a fantastic source of antioxidants. They are also among the top sources of vitamin E, which helps protect cell membranes against damage caused by free radicals and is also necessary for the structural and functional maintenance of skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle systems. (1) That is to list a few reasons why I like to enjoy almonds from time to time.

It was time for a “trip”…

Back in February of this year, I took a tumble… twice.  The first night I fell, it landed me in the ER with what I was convinced was a broken hand.  When I fell, my fingers bent backward and touched my wrist. After a couple of hours of nausea, shaking, and three X-rays later… it was just a terrible sprain. A few days later, I fell again (!) and sprained my right ankle.  Not my most prize-winning moments. hehe

Anyway, once home from my Walk-About, I went into high gear to speed up my healing process, which is when turmeric became a massive game player in my daily diet.  I made the Turmeric Paste and started to add it to my morning smoothie, and then in the afternoon, I would make this golden milk.  I did this for over a month, and it truly made a difference.  It helped to strengthen the ligaments in my hands and took away the constant ache that I was experiencing.

There are many other health benefits to this drink; it is detoxifying for the liver and kidneys… helps with digestion… decreases inflammation… and so on.  I would share my experience with you, in hopes to encourage you to give it a try.  I would love to hear what you think down below in the comment section. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1 tsp Golden Turmeric Paste

8 oz raw almond milk

Raw honey or stevia to taste



Preparation:

Blender preparation:


Place 8 oz of almond milk and 1 tsp of Golden paste to the blender.  Blend until warm.

The length of time it takes for your blender to warm your drink will ultimately depend on the unit you have. I have a Vitamix that has a “hot” button. Which is typically used for making soups.  I don’t let it go through the full programmed session, just enough to get it nice and warm.

I provided a link on how to make your own almond milk.  When I made it for this recipe, I made it thicker, but you can control that.

Feel free to use any milk that you desire; coconut milk, cashew milk, Tigernut milk, etc.




Add the sweetener just when it’s about done blending.

Pour into a mug, sprinkle a little cinnamon on top and enjoy!


Stove-top preparation:


In a stainless steel pot, gently heat, but do not boil, 8 oz of almond milk with 1 teaspoon of golden paste. Whisking just until the liquid is warm.

Add the sweetener and serve!

Enjoy first thing in the morning in place of coffee… or enjoy at night time to help carry you into the deep slumberland of rest.

Caution: Those who are pregnant, have gallstones, or are susceptible to kidney stones may want to moderate their turmeric consumption.








Look at that latte almond, turmeric foam!



Update: 12/31/16 Enjoying this beverage during my liquid cleanse.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



