Nut Milk - A New Technique!
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/nut-milk-a-new-technique/



	Nut Milk – A New Technique!

													    
    


				I have shared a little bit about this before, when I was just starting to tinker with other methods of making nut milks.  You might remember how I used an old antique cheese press to squeeze out the milk.  So with those same thoughts still rolling around in my head, I started to do a little research about cheese presses.

During my late-night Google searches I found a  company that sells several different sized ones.  I took a gamble and ordered their smallest model, hoping it would be a nice and manageable size for the kitchen counter.

I love making nut milks for two reasons: for the milk of course but more so for the nut pulp which I love to use in my recipes.  So, when I do make nut milks, I make large quantities, and my hands get so tired and cramped from all the squeezing of the nut milk bag.

My husband had a great idea using a book press that we have.  But it is so large and heavy!  Not to mention not everyone can easily get their hands on one. :)

So, I spied our antique cheese press that was on display above our kitchen cabinets.  It was one that we found at a local antique store. It was in rough shape, so we sandblasted it and had it powder coated a beautiful cream and red color. (red being my favorite color)

It worked beautifully but had a few design flaws. As you can see in the first photo to the right here, it doesn’t have what I refer to as a “nibble spout” for anything to hook up to.  It just has a drain spout.  It works, but you run the risk of milk spilling out, so you have to make sure there is a tray underneath.

So, this is when I decided to look at new cheese presses online. Sometimes, they are referred to as fruit presses as well. The whole design is still the same as my antique press except the new ones have the “nipple spout.” For the sake of discovery and research of my new idea, I ordered one. Once it arrived, we took it down to the hardware store and matched up the rise size plastic tube to attach to the nipple spout. I thought that this would work perfectly in directing the milk where to go once the press was engaged.

And I was right, this new press that I ordered works like a charm!!!  Not only does it make for pain-free hands, it really squeezes the pulp dry!  I took some pictures, and I hope you can see the amazing results.  I have never been able to get so much nut milk out of the pulp before.

If you would like to order one of these handy dandy units, click here… this is an exact unit that I have in my kitchen. There are many different styles for the types of presses and they all range in different prices. So don’t feel locked into the one that I recommend. I choose it because the cost was relatively good and the unit worked perfectly for me.

Preparation:

Make the dairy-free alternative milk:


Start by making your favorite nut or coconut milk base. Click here for nut milk recipes.

This technique can be used with any nut or seed milk.

Always start with soaked nuts.  Curious why?  Read here.





Setting up the press:


Twist the handle as high up as it can go, raising the pressing disc out of the holding tank.

Place the nut bag in the center canister and fold the bag over the edges of the canister.

Slide the canister back onto the press, attach the clear tubing to the “nipple spout.”  Don’t forget to do this, I have, and it makes a mighty mess.

Place the press on the edge of the sink, with a bowl or pitcher in the sink. Direct the clear tubing into the pitcher. See photos below.

The press will always need to be sitting higher than the catching container due to gravity.


Starting the process:


Make the nut milk and pour it into the nut bag lined containers.

Milk will automatically start to drain out. This is why it is important to have everything set up and ready to go. We don’t want to be crying over spilled milk.

After emptying all of the milk into the canisters, you can do one of two things;

Start twisting the handle, so the pressing disc starts to lower into the canister.

Or you can pull the drawstring on the nut bag close and pile it in the canister and start the pressing.

I have done both and prefer leaving the bag folded over the edges. I have photos of both ways below.




Twist the handle until you feel resistance.

The disc is now coming into contact with the nut pulp.  Give it a few more turns, as much as you can.  This will squeeze out the excess milk, and you won’t see milk coming down the plastic tube anymore.

Start to twist the handle in the opposite direction to lift it out of the press, remove the canister, remove the nut bag, and there you have it.



		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

			
				
			
			
				
			

		

And there you have it… refreshing nut milk with ease!

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



