Crio Brü Cold Pressed Drink (coffee replacement)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/crio-bru-cold-pressed-drink-coffee-replacement/



	Crio Brü Cold Pressed Drink | Coffee Replacement

													    
    


				– raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free –

Here we go… I have a new drink to introduce.  “All rise, the  Crio Brü Coffee has arrived.  You may now be seated.”  I stumbled upon this new drink the other day as I was frequenting our local health food store.

I get into more trouble when I go to that place.  I get the same wide-eyed, overwhelming response that a child gets on their face when they walk into Willy Wonka’s Chocolate Factory when  I go into health food stores.   I want to inspect everything!  I try to go alone, so I don’t feel rushed.  Going in there with my husband is like sending a child to the candy store and telling them, “Ok, you have three minutes to select ONE candy…go!”

So in my dreamy, lolly-gagging state of leisure, I found myself in the back of the store where all the “interesting stuff” hides.  You know that place… where the aisles have low lighting and the dust bunnies run rampant?!   That is where I stumbled upon Crio Brü.  It caught my attention and went right into my basket!   So now, I want to share it with you.

What is Crio Brü?

Crio Brü is made from 100%, perfectly roasted cocoa beans. Nothing more, nothing less. No sugar, no chemicals, no dairy. Although Crio Brü roasts the cocoa beans, many of the health benefits found in its natural state are preserved, giving you a superior product with sky-high antioxidants, abundant minerals, and healthy energy.

The cocoa beans used in Crio Brü and Crio Beans are superior to most foods because they deliver so many nutrients that we each need to boost health and wellness*. Here is a list of some of the benefits of incorporating cocoa beans into your life:  Crio Brü is made from 100%, perfectly roasted cocoa beans. Nothing more, nothing less. No sugar, no chemicals, no dairy. Although Crio Brü roasts the cocoa beans, many of the health benefits found in its natural state are preserved, giving you a superior product with sky-high antioxidants, abundant minerals, and healthy energy.

Ingredients:


7 cups water

1 cup Crio Brü  Coffee, ground


Preparation:


I use a 1/2 gallon mason jar.  Dump in the ground nibs and fill with water.   Place the lid on top and give it a shake.

Let it stand/brew for about 12 hours or overnight.  I kept mine in the fridge.

First, pour through a nut bag to get the large grounds.  Then filter and/or sieve the liquid using a fine filter to remove all residue of the grounds.

The extract is now ready to be stored in the fridge for up two weeks.  When reconstituted, it becomes a delicious, smooth-tasting, drink.

To prepare your drink, pour out a little extract and add warm-hot water, about 1/4 cup of extract to about 3/4 cup of water depending on your tastes.

You can add the “extract” in steamed nut milks for espresso drinks, or with hot water for a regular drink.  Tastes fantastic with coconut milk too!


Tip – To prevent your “coffee” drink from getting watered down, freeze some of the “coffee” in ice cubes trays.

Boost your immune system


Antioxidants fight oxidative damage and free radicals in the body. Cocoa (or cacao) contains the highest concentration of antioxidants of any food in the world, including polyphenols, catechins, and epicatechins. By weight, cocoa has more antioxidants than red wine, blueberries, açai, pomegranates, and goji berries combined. To see the ORAC USDA chart, go to our Crio FAQs page.

Zinc plays a critical role in supporting your immune system, liver, pancreas, and skin.


Increase energy naturally


Cocoa beans contain a natural stimulant called theobromine that is a relative of caffeine. Unlike caffeine, theobromine gives you a noticeable increase in energy without making you feel nervous or jittery. Cacao naturally contains about 1% theobromine.

Theobromine is gentle, mild, has a slow onset, is long-lasting, and non-addictive, whereas caffeine is intense, potent, fast-acting, short-lived, and addictive. In short, it gives you healthy energy as part of a healthy diet.


Support your heart, digestive system, brain, and bones


Cocoa has more magnesium than any other food, which supports the heart, aids digestion, balances brain chemistry, and builds strong bones. Over 80% of Americans are chronically magnesium deficient.

Crio Brü is a 100% gluten-free, dairy-free, sugar-free, fat-free food.

Crio Beans are 100% gluten-free, dairy-free, cholesterol-free, soy-free, and sodium-free food.


Oxygenate the blood and maintain healthy blood sugar levels


The trace mineral manganese found in cacao assists iron to oxygenate the blood and form hemoglobin.

Found naturally in cacao, copper helps build healthy blood.

Nearly 80% of Americans are deficient in the trace mineral chromium that helps promote a healthy blood sugar level.


Feel great, increase focus, reduce stress, and sleep better


Our body produces an endorphin or “bliss chemical” called anandamide after exercise that makes us feel great. It has also been found in one plant – cacao.

Our body produces the chemical phenylethylamine when we fall in love and increases focus and alertness. This natural chemical is also found abundantly in cacao.

Cacao contains serotonin, a primary neurotransmitter in the body that helps build a “stress defense shield.”

Tryptophan is a natural anti-depressant amino acid contained in cacao that transforms into stress-protective neurotransmitters that enhance relaxation and promote better sleep.


Does it contain caffeine?

Depending on the type of cacao bean it is made from, it either contains little to no caffeine or trace amounts. The misconception that chocolate (cacao) contains caffeine is based primarily on confusion between two similar alkaloids: caffeine and theobromine. The two stimulants are related and have similar chemical structures, but possess very different properties, effects, and origins.

Are the Crio Bru grounds good for plants?

Yes, similar to coffee grounds, Crio Brü grounds make great compost. The iron and magnesium make an excellent additive to your soil. NOTE: Please ensure that pets won’t get into the soil, as it could be very harmful, even fatal.

*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Sources: www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/9566.php | Naked Chocolate by David Wolfe and Shazzie

Disclaimer

This website is not intended to provide medical advice.  All content, including text, graphics, images, and information available on this site is for general informational, entertainment, and educational purposes only.  The content is not intended to be a substitute for professional diagnosis or treatment. The author of this site is not responsible for any adverse effects that may occur from the application of the information on this site. You are encouraged to make your own healthcare decisions based on your research and in partnership with a qualified healthcare professional.
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



