Chocolate Coconut Hemp Shake - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/chocolate-coconut-hemp-shake/



	Chocolate Coconut Hemp Shake

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This shake is filled with all-things-yummy.  There isn’t one ingredient that I like over the other, so I am in good shape. :)  Ok, I might have fibbed now that I have put some thought into it… peanut butter… all things peanut butter make me swoon.

The key to making a thick, velvety, creamy shake is all in the banana. And not just any banana. First off, it must be ripe.  I am talking about a banana that is sporting a brown polka-dotted sports coat if you know what I mean.

Secondly, it needs to be frozen.  If you have made banana ice cream before, you understand the incredible consistency that it creates.  It will add not only the coldness, smooth texture but also the thick viscosity that every shake offers.

A fresh banana would leave you with the impression that you were drinking a shake hours ago, and it had been left sitting on the kitchen windowsill.

There are so many alterations that could be made to this recipe, but I encourage you to give it a try as is… then build from there.  This dink is one of my husband’s favorites.  Every time he drinks it, he says, “Man, I would drink that again!”  That is code for… make this for me often, please! lol

Ingredients:


8 oz raw coconut milk

2 Tbsp raw hemp seed

2 Tbsp organic peanut butter or almond butter

1 Tbsp maple syrup or honey

1 1/2 Tbsp raw cacao powder

1 Tbsp organic coconut flakes

1 tsp cold-pressed coconut oil

1 frozen ripe banana, rough chopped

a handful of ice


Preparation:


In a high-powered blender, combine the coconut milk, hemp seeds, peanut butter, sweetener, cacao, coconut flakes, oil, and frozen banana.

It is best to use a frozen banana rather than a fresh one due to the creamy, thick texture that it adds.




Blend until creamy, add ice, blend for 10 seconds and enjoy right away.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



