Lime Cooler (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/lime-cooler/



	Lime Cooler

													    
    


				

~ vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This is one of my favorite drinks to make when we have house parties.  It is so refreshing and so easy to make. But I also have alternative motives when serving this to my guests.

For starters, mint is a great appetizer and palate cleanser. I want to prime their taste buds, getting them ready for some wonderful, delicious, nutritious foods. It also promotes digestion and can help soothe stomachs in cases of indigestion when people tend to overeat as they snack and mingle.  And you think I serve this just to quench a person’s thirst. hehe

Limes have a bright and citrus scent which causes your mouth to water, which activates digestion (the digestive saliva floods your mouth even before you taste it).

Every time I make it I am constantly approached by my guests, asking for the recipe.  I usually 5x the recipe due to its popularity.

Not too long ago I was hosting a party at my house when my girlfriend’s son approached me.  He had a pad of paper in one hand and a pencil in the other hand.  He tugged on the sleeve of my shirt to grab my attention and said, “Amie Sue can you please give me the recipe of that drink over there?”  as he pointed at the Lime Cooler.  “Why of course, let me know when you’re ready.”

He positioned himself, and with a serious look in his eye, he said, “Ready!”  I slowly called out each ingredient, making sure that I gave him enough time to write it all down.  When I was done, he looked at the paper and slowly read back to me what I had shared with him.   I assured him he had everything he needed to know.

He carefully folded the piece of paper and tucked it into his jeans.  Before turning away from me, he said, “Amie Sue, this is going to be a money maker!”  haha He was only nine yrs old.  But I have to agree with his sweet innocence; it is a money-maker because everyone just loves it.

Ingredients:


4 cups cold water

1/4 cup fresh lime juice

1/4 cup agave nectar

1/4 cup fresh mint leaves

3 cups crushed ice cubes


Preparation:


Blend the water, lime juice, agave, and mint leaves in a high-power blender.

If you don’t want tiny specs of mint to be floating around in the glass, you can pass the liquid mixture through a mesh nut bag to strain them out. I have done it both ways.




Fill a glass 1/3 of the way up with crushed ice and pour mixture over to fill up the glass.

Garnish with some fresh mint leaves and a wedge of lime.

Make ahead. I like to make this drink up in advance. This gives the mint leaves time to release their full potential in flavor.

Tip: Sometimes I make a batch of this cooler up and pour it into single serving mason jars. Place a lid on top and store in the fridge.  Now you have a grab-and-go drink in the fridge, ready to help you cool down on those warm and sunny days.

Thank you, Russell James, for the inspiration, You are awesome.


 


		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			

		

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



