Slurp-Dilly-Ish-Ous Smoothie - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/slurp-dilly-ish-ous-smoothie/



	Slurp-Dilly-Ish-Ous Smoothie

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This morning’s smoothie was.  It was just like I named it, Slurp-dilly-ish-ous!  I used Sun Warrior Raw Vegan Protein Chocolate Powder today in this smoothie.

I was shocked that it didn’t have much of a flavor at all.  Perhaps the banana and strawberry took over in the flavor department.  Regardless, it was packed with great nutrition and tasted exceptionally well on the taste buds!

This morning I enjoyed my smoothie out in the front courtyard.  The Spring leaves are turning bright with color, the birds were singing, and the sun was warm.  It is important to take the time to enjoy what you eat or drink. :)


Smoothie Tips



Blending fruits and vegetables together breaks down the cells of plants and improves digestibility. BUT even with that, be sure to chew your smoothies.  The chewing process starts the release of the saliva in your mouth.  The mixture of saliva and your food is where digestion begins.  This is a very healthy habit to get into.  It may feel strange at first, but soon it will become an automatic response.


Bee Pollen

If you are Bee-gan (vegan that doesn’t consume bee products), you can skip it.  I am ok with using it. It is often referred to as “nature’s perfect food.” Bee pollen contains 96 known nutrients, with a high degree of bioavailability.  No other single food offers the array of vitamins, minerals, protein, amino acids, antibiotics, enzymes, trace elements, fats, and hormones found in bee pollen.  You can read more on a quick post that I did (here).
Ingredients:


2 Tbsp chia seeds

2 cups water

6 cups spinach

1 medium frozen banana, ripe

1-pint organic strawberries

3 Tbsp raw vegan chocolate powder

1 tsp bee pollen, optional

1 tsp NuNatural liquid stevia

Pinch Himalayan pink salt

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon




Preparation:



Soak the chia seeds in 2 cups of water for about 15 minutes in the blender carafe.  Enough for them to swell up.

The first thing to add to your blender is the liquid.  This will the greens move more freely when blending.

Start with 1 cup.  After everything is added, feel free to add more if desired.

The more liquid you add the more watery or runnier the smoothie will be.




Add the spinach and blend until it is broken down.

Blending in stages prevents chunks.




Add the frozen banana, strawberries,  protein powder, bee pollen, sweetener, cinnamon, and salt.  Blend until smooth.

I always recommend frozen bananas over fresh.  Make a habit out of storing overripe, peeled bananas in the freezer for future smoothies.

A dash of a high-quality salt will increase the minerals and improve the taste of your smoothie.

A good green smoothie should be perfectly smooth.




Optional – Add ice

Always add the ice last. Otherwise, you may over blend the ice, and it will make your smoothie watery rather than frosty.

I usually only add ice if my fruit wasn’t frozen.





Learn how to design your own smoothies by reading through my, Template for Designing Smoothie Recipes.





While there are more than 600 varieties of strawberries!

Strawberries contain a range of nutrients, with vitamin C heading the group. They also contain significant levels of phytonutrients and antioxidants, which fight free radicals. These antioxidant properties are believed to be linked to what makes the strawberry bright red.

So what are these weird free radicals? Free radicals are elements that can damage cells, and they are thought to contribute to the formation of many kinds of cancer.

In addition to vitamin C, strawberries also provide an excellent source of vitamin K and manganese, as well as folic acid, potassium, riboflavin, vitamin B5, vitamin B6, copper, magnesium, and omega-3 fatty acids.


How to Select and Store


As strawberries are very perishable, they should only be purchased a few days prior to use.

Choose berries that are firm, plump, free of mold, and which have a shiny, deep red color and attached green caps.

Since strawberries, once picked, do not ripen further, avoid those that are dull in color or have green or yellow patches since they are likely to be sour and of inferior quality. Medium-sized strawberries are often more flavorful than those that are excessively large.

Strawberries are usually available year-round, although in the greatest abundance from the spring through the mid-summer.

Like all berries, strawberries are very perishable, so great care should be taken in their handling and storage. Before storing in the refrigerator, remove any strawberries that are molded or damaged so that they will not contaminate others.

Replace unwashed and unhulled berries in their original container or spread them out on a plate covered with a paper towel, then cover with plastic wrap. Strawberries will keep fresh in the refrigerator for one or two days. Make sure not to leave strawberries at room temperature or exposed to sunlight for too long, as this will cause them to spoil.

To freeze strawberries, first gently wash them and pat them dry. You can either remove the cap and stem or leave them intact, depending upon what you will do with them once they are thawed. Arrange them in a single layer on a flat pan or cookie sheet and place them in the freezer. Once frozen, transfer the berries to a heavy plastic bag and return them to the freezer where they will keep for up to one year. Adding a bit of lemon juice to the berries will help to preserve their color. While strawberries can be frozen whole, cut, or crushed, they will retain a higher level of their vitamin C content if left whole.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



