Summer Spritzer Water
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/summer-spritzer-water/



	Summer Spritzer Water

													    
    


				




Whenever we host a gathering in our home, I sit down and quickly sketch out a menu plan… drinks are always the last thing I think of. Mainly because I want the drinks to complement the dinner, not compete with it. Just like when we buy shoes to match our outfits… well, unless they are killer shoes, then they become the main attraction, and we build the outfit from there. hehe









There used to be a day when soda pop was the main beverage served at our family gatherings. We usually had 6-packs of just about every flavor of soda that was created stacked high in the fridge. Over the years, as I started to become more health conscious, I started to skip the sugar-laden sodas and turned to iced teas. But this time around, I decided on this refreshing drink that perfectly quenches the thirst… you know, it wets thee ole’ whistle.



I was so excited to make this drink for our guests, and I just knew that it was going to make the table look so fresh and inviting.  I spent the afternoon setting the table, preparing the food, and making everything perfect. Our guests arrived, and a flurry of conversation carried us all into the evening.  We sat back in our chairs and patted our bellies… the food was great but the time spent together was greater.



As the night was coming to a close, I got up to prepare “treat bags” so everyone could take home some left-overs.  I opened the fridge to grab something and guess what… there sat four of my half-gallon jars… staring at me ever so beautifully!  Oy-vey!  I forgot the Summer Spritzer Water!  One just has to laugh.  So, I sent everyone home with a hug and a jar of this refreshing water.  :)

Ingredients:

yields 1/2 gallon


1 cup sliced strawberries

2 lemons, sliced

1/4 cup fresh mint leaves

Ice cubes

Cold carbonated(soda) water or regular water


Preparation:


In a half-gallon jar or pitcher, layer the strawberries, lemon slices, and mint leaves with the ice cubes.

Fill jar or pitcher with water and stir all the ingredients up.

Place in the fridge for 10 minutes or longer to chill.   The longer it sits, the stronger the flavors get.

Note ~ if you use carbonated water, drink within a few hours, so you don’t lose the fizz.





 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



