Banana Apple Zucchini Smoothie Recipe - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/raw-banana-apple-zucchini-smoothie/



	Banana Apple Zucchini Smoothie

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free, Paleo ~

This smoothie was delicious! It’s incredible how much the banana cuts out the flavor of the greens!  By the time I added my ice to the blender, I had ended up with 44 oz!!!  I can see that taking pictures is going to be a creative challenge because they so far, even though the ingredients differ some, they are all GREEN! :)

Cha-Cha-Cha Chia!

Chia seeds are known for a whole host of health benefits, but today I wanted to talk about how it stabilizes blood sugar. They slow down the rate at which complex carbohydrates are digested and then assimilated into the body. The soluble fiber helps to stabilize blood glucose levels resulting in steady, sustained energy.

In one study on diabetic patients, Dr. Vladamir Vuksan of St. Michael’s Hospital in Toronto, found that blood was thinner and less prone to clotting and blood pressure of participants dropped significantly, after three months of taking Chia seeds daily.

Smoothie Tips

Blending fruits and vegetables break down the cells of plants and improves digestibility. BUT even with that, be sure to chew your smoothies.  The chewing process starts the release of the saliva in your mouth.  The mixture of saliva and your food is where digestion begins, so this is a very healthy habit to create.  It may feel strange at first, but soon it will become an automatic response.

Ingredients:


2 Tbsp chia seeds

2 cups water

6 cups spinach

4 oz organic frozen banana, chopped

5 oz organic apple, cored

6 oz organic zucchini, chopped

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Soak the chia seeds in the 2 cups of water for about 15 minutes in the blender carafe.  Enough for them to swell up.

The first thing to add to your blender is the liquid so that the greens can move more freely when blending.




Add the spinach.  Blend until it is broken down.

Blending in stages prevents chunks.




Add the frozen banana, apple, zucchini, and salt.  Blend until smooth.

I always recommend frozen bananas over fresh.  Make a habit out of storing overripe, peeled bananas in the freezer for future smoothies.

A dash of a high-quality salt will increase the minerals and improve the taste of your smoothie.

A good green smoothie should be perfectly smooth.




Optional – Add ice

Always add the ice last; otherwise, you may over blend the ice, and it will make your smoothie watery rather than frosty.

I usually only add ice if my fruit wasn’t frozen.




 Learn how to design your own smoothies by reading through my Template for Designing Smoothie Recipes.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



