Pumped-Up Pumpkin Pie Smoothie (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/pumpkin-pie-protein-smoothie/



	Pumped-Up Pumpkin Pie Smoothie

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I feel sort of bad here… am I dis-loyal?  I mean we still have pears on the tree, patiently waiting to be harvested tomorrow, and already I have pushed them aside, making room for my Autumn time love… the PUMPKIN!

I am a sucker for pumpkins of all shapes and sizes.  But when it comes to using pumpkins in my raw recipes, I prefer sugar pie pumpkins.  The skin is very thin which makes it easier to peel (I use a potato peeler), and the flesh is sweeter.

Not only do I LOVE the taste of pumpkins, but I love to decorate with them.  They instantly bring warmth and add a splash of color to any room.   It is okay to display pumpkins a few weeks indoors before you use them in your recipes.  However, inside a home is too warm for long-term storage.

You should never place a pumpkin directly on a wooden tabletop or on the carpet.  It can soften on the blossom end and weep pumpkin juice.  Even if it doesn’t weep, the moisture can damage wooden surfaces.

So be sure to choose a hard, nonporous surface, so your pumpkin doesn’t age prematurely or damage something.  Ideally, put a cloth or a circle of cardboard between the pumpkin and the surface you are displaying it on.

It’s easy to get excited over the REALLY big pumpkins that are piled up outside the local grocery store.  Don’t use these for your recipes!  They don’t taste very good!  They are called Jack-O-Lantern pumpkins and were bred to have upright straight walls, to be hollow, and to stand up to being carved.  They were not bred for eating.

Now, just in case you are not able to get your hands on a real pumpkin due to where you live, or the time of year, you can always use canned pumpkin puree for this recipe.  It won’t be raw, but it still tastes good and has nutritional value to it.  Just be sure to buy organic and always read the label making sure they didn’t add other ingredients to the puree.  You want pure pumpkin!

If on the other hand, if you have the blessed opportunity to use fresh pumpkin, you can make your raw pumpkin puree easily.

How to make raw pumpkin puree:


Start with a sugar pie pumpkin.  Wash and dry it.

Place the pumpkin on a cutting board on its side.  Carefully cut off the top and bottom, leaving a flat surface.

With a potato peeler, remove the skin.  I used to use a knife but I found I wasted more of the “flesh” with that technique.

Cut the pumpkin in half and scoop out the seeds with your hands.  Place the seeds in a small bowl for later.  You can dehydrate them for a delicious snack!

Now cut the pumpkin flesh into small chunks.

In the food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, process the pumpkin chunks until it is broken down nice and small.  I take it one step further, but it is optional.

I transfer the puree into my high-speed blender and pulverize it until it is VERY smooth.  I am all about mouth-feel.  You will have to stop the blender from time to time to scrap down the sides.

That’s it, very easy!


Ingredients:

Yields 2 – 9 oz smoothies


1 small banana, frozen

1 cup raw almond milk

1/2 cup pumpkin puree

1 scoop vanilla protein powder

1 Tbsp chia seeds

6 ice cubes

1/2 tsp vanilla extract

1 tsp pumpkin pie spice

1/4 tsp ground cinnamon

10 drops liquid stevia or 2 Tbsp maple syrup


Preparation:


In a high-speed blender combine; frozen banana (chopped), milk, pumpkin, protein powder, chia seeds, ice cubes, vanilla, spices, and stevia.   Blend on high until nice and creamy.  I use a Blendtec blender,  press the “whole juice” button, and let it run its course.  Perfect!

If you are allergic to nuts, you can make hemp milk or even oat milk instead of almond milk.  There are many options.


 Learn how to design your own smoothies by reading through my, Template for Designing Smoothie Recipes.

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



