Simply Strawberries and Cream Milkshake (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/simply-strawberries-and-cream-milkshake/



	Simply Strawberries and Cream Milkshake

													    
    


				


~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This “vegan breakfast milkshake” will help you jumpstart your day. Filled with creamy goodness, it feels indulgent and comes along with a whole lot of nutrition. Based on a creamy almond/coconut milk, which creates a perfect foundation for frosty strawberries and chia seeds. This truly feels like an indulgent treat first thing in the morning.

Window of Opportunity

There’s a perfect window every summer where the local strawberries are finally ripe. And when that season is upon us, I take full of advantage of it. I eat them as is, fold into cheesecakes, make fresh jams, and put them in drinks such as this one.

If for some reason you stumble upon this recipe when strawberries are not in season, you can use organic frozen ones.

This drink is amazing without the chia seeds, but I just love the texture and the health benefits that chia provides. This is almost a drink that is eaten like a meal.

You don’t need a spoon, but I recommend a fat straw. And as always when enjoying smoothies, green drinks, and milkshakes, it is best to always chew them with each sip (slurp?). This gets the digestive juices started, preparing a gateway so you can fully absorb all its goodness and glory. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1-2 servings

Almond cream:


1 1/2 cups water

1 cup raw almonds, soaked


Add in:


1 cup young Thai coconut meat

1 cup diced strawberries

2 – 4 Tbsp raw honey

1 tsp vanilla extract

dash Himalayan pink salt

3 Tbsp chia seeds


Preparation:


Soak the almonds for 8 hours, drain and rinse.

Add 1 1/2 cups of water to the blender and then the almonds.  Blend on high for 30 seconds.

Pour the mixture into a nut bag and squeeze the almond milk/cream into a bowl.

Keep the almond pulp for other fun recipes. (use the search for “almond pulp”)




Rinse the blender and add the milk, coconut meat, honey, vanilla, and chia seeds.  Blend for 30 seconds.  Pour into a glass.

Allow to rest for at least 10 minutes, so the chia seeds have time to activate and start to swell up.

Enjoy right away or place in the fridge overnight.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



