Sweet Georgian Pecan Homogenized Milk (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/sweet-georgian-pecan-homogenized-milk/



	Sweet Georgian Pecan Homogenized Milk

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Sweet Georgia pecans make for an excellent nut milk.  If you think all pecans taste the same or close “enough”… think again.  That goes for all nuts.

It is very very important to taste test the nuts you buy. Keep a particular note of the brand names, where you source them, and the quality (organic, raw, how they taste).   The food that you serve on a plate or in a glass will only be as good as each ingredient used.

I think pecans often get lost in pie crusts, mixed in with cookies, bars or granolas… have you ever actually stopped to appreciate their flavor all alone?

This nut milk will bring that sweet, nutty flavor to the forefront.   To help sweeten things up, I added a tablespoon of maple syrup.  You can omit this all together or add more.  Don’t be afraid to taste test and tailor it to your taste buds.

I added sunflower lecithin, not only for the health benefits (known to support a healthy brain function and nervous system) but also because it is a natural emulsifier.  By blending it in with the nut milk, it will help prevent a separation from happening as it is “chilling” in the fridge.

If we are going to enjoy a glass of pecan milk, let’s understand why.  “Pecans contain more than 19 vitamins and minerals – including vitamin A, vitamin E, folic acid, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, several B vitamins, and zinc. One ounce of pecans provides 10 percent of the recommended Daily Value for fiber. Pecans are also a natural, high-quality source of protein that contains very few carbohydrates and no cholesterol.“

Hopefully, with that bit of information, you will feel good about your decision to try this Vegan Sweet Georgian Pecan Homogenized Milk!  P.S. I just got myself a new antique milk jug. Oh, how I love them. As you look at the photos, I showed all sides of it, just for fun.

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups


1 cup raw pecans, soaked

3 cups water

1 Tbsp maple syrup

2 tsp sunflower lecithin powder


Preparation:


After soaking the pecans, drain and rinse them.  Don’t use the soak water when making the milk; it’s full of that phytic acid that we are trying to extract from it.

Place the pecans, water, maple syrup, and lecithin in the blender and blend for 30-60 seconds on high.

Pour the milk through a nut bag, gently but firmly squeeze all the liquid out from the bag.

Be careful that you don’t have any snags in your nails or sharp rings that could puncture the mesh nut bag.  Once that happens it is no value for nut milk making.




Store the milk in a mason jar in the fridge for 3-5 days.  You can also freeze it for up to 3 months.

I recommend freezing the nut pulp for future recipes.  Place in a ziplock bag, press the air out, label, and freeze for up to 3 months.










© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



