(FREE) Alkaline Ginger Lemon Gut Flush
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/alkaline-ginger-lemon-gut-flush-raw-vegan-gluten-free/


  
  	Alkaline Ginger Lemon Gut Flush

    
    
    
  				  					  				      
      

  				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, Paleo ~

Have you been overindulging in all the festivities swirling around us or perhaps just overindulging in general? How can you not? It’s the time of year that brings everyone together, and what is one common thing that we tend to congregate around? Food!

We step into our sweatpants with the elastic band and eat things that we typically don’t because there’s the seduction of “it only comes but once a year,” whispering in our ear. Therefore, we must eat all the holiday goodies before they’re gone again for the year.

I have been in this position many times over the years and have learned a few tricks to help save my tummy from pits of despair. Or from becoming a pit of despair.  This year I did a liquid cleanse that took me right on through the holidays, but that’s not always feasible.

If you have found your digestion feeling a tad sluggish, I highly recommend this Alkaline Ginger Lemon Gut Flush. You can make a batch up to last you through the week. Then you pop a ginger coin into your mouth about fifteen minutes before eating.

The ginger and lemon juice are both valuable for warming the stomach, stimulating proper digestion, and for “waking up,” a congested, slowed down or weakened digestion.

Now I realize that with this recipe, you won’t be drinking the lemon juice.  Even if you just bite a lemon wedge… you will start the digestion process by activating the saliva glands your mouth.

If you question whether your digestion is suffering, ask yourself if you often feel fatigued after eating.  If so, this may be the result of weak digestion. Of course, there are other tell-tale signs when the digestion is stressed. But that’s a matter of learning how your own body speaks to you.

One of the many ways that you can do to improve digestion is to stimulate digestive fire before you begin eating.  According to Ayurveda practices, it is recommended to eat a one-inch piece of fresh ginger with few drops of lemon juice and few pinches of salt on it before a full meal.  This recipe is just another way of presenting that in an easy, grab-n-go fashion.

Once the digestion fire is activated, don’t put it out by drinking cold water, drinks, or milk with your meals.  I know it can be difficult but start the practice of drinking your liquids at room or body temperature.  In fact, try not to drink large amounts of liquid with your food.  It can leave you with a false sense of feeling full, which will only catch up with you sooner than later… plus it dilutes the digestive juices. If you do indeed suffer from digestive issues, sipping liquids at room temp will make a significant improvement.  I tested this for over six months and felt a difference.

There are so many tips and tricks when it comes to the digestive system, gather them up, and give them a try. See what works for you!  P.S. I didn’t invent this recipe, it is all over the web… but I felt it was worth sharing due to the health benefits. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1/2 cup fresh lemon juice

Fresh ginger

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Fresh squeeze the lemon juice and pour it in a pint mason jar.

Do not use the store-bought bottled lemon juice. It is dead and tastes terrible.




Peel the ginger, cut into 1/8″pieces, and add the lemon to the jar.   Fill the jar with a reasonable amount to last you for a week.

Ginger has a strong, often hot, and pungent taste, so slice the ginger into thin coin sizes.  Don’t go all Rambo, thinking more is better… work yourself up to it if you are new to eating raw ginger like this.

To peel the ginger, grab a spoon with a thin edge, and scrape away the skin. This will make less waste.

You want to make sure that the ginger is covered with lemon juice.




Add the sea salt, place the lid on tightly, and shake well.   I recommend shaking it before each use.

Store in the fridge and eat one to two pieces of the soaked fresh ginger before each meal.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 
  

        	
   	

  	
  	
  	

  
	


	









	
    





    































































