Fennel Citrus Smoothie - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/fennel-citris-smoothie/



	Fennel Citrus Smoothie

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I love licorice, and it all started in the womb.  Yep, you heard me right, in the womb!  When my mother was pregnant with me, she CRAVED black licorice-like there was no tomorrow.

She ate it non-stop.  I used to tease that if you were to cut my skin, I would bleed black.

Stumbling upon this amazing vegetable has given me warm fuzzies in knowing I get some of that licorice flavor that I so adore in a fresh, raw version!

Fennel is composed of a white or pale green bulb from which closely superimposed stalks are arranged. The stalks are topped with feathery green leaves near which flowers grow and produce fennel seeds.  The bulb, stalk, leaves, and seeds are all edible.

This turned out to be one of my all-time favorites!  Wow!  The citrus helps to cut the green, and there is a hint of fennel flavor that lingers in the back of your throat. I will be making this one again!


Smoothie Tips



Blending fruits and vegetables together breaks down the cells of plants and improves digestibility. BUT even with that, be sure to chew your smoothies.  The chewing process starts the release of the saliva in your mouth.  The mixture of saliva and your food is where digestion begins, so this is a very healthy habit to create.  It may feel strange at first, but soon it will become an automatic response.

Ingredients:


2 cups water

3 cups spinach

1 stalk of fennel, bulb, and leaves

2 oranges, peeled

1 medium frozen banana

2 Tbsp lemon juice

1 Tbsp vanilla extract

1 Tbsp psyllium husk

1 tsp NuNatural liquid stevia

Pinch Himalayan pink salt



Preparation:



In the blender, combine the water and spinach.  Blend until the spinach is broke down.

The first thing to add to your blender is the liquid to help the greens move more freely when blending.

Blending in stages prevents chunks.




Add the fennel, orange, frozen banana, lemon juice, vanilla, psyllium, sweetener, and salt.  Blend until smooth.

I always recommend frozen bananas over fresh.  Make a habit out of storing overripe, peeled bananas in the freezer for future smoothies.

A dash of a high-quality salt will increase the minerals and improve the taste of your smoothie.

When adding psyllium, be sure to get it blended in.  Click (here) if you want to read more about this ingredient.

A good green smoothie should be perfectly smooth.





Learn how to design your own smoothies by reading through my Template for Designing Smoothie Recipes.

Star Ingredient…Fennel!


The bulb, stalk, leaves, and seeds of fennel are all edible. Fennel belongs to the Umbelliferae family and is therefore closely related to parsley, carrots, dill, and coriander.  Fennel contains many minerals and vitamins: vitamin C, fiber, minerals – manganese, potassium, magnesium, calcium, iron, and vitamin B3.

The vitamin C from the bulb of the plant is antibacterial and very useful to the immune system.

The fennel bulb is an essential source of fiber, which may help to reduce elevated cholesterol levels.  And since fiber also removes potentially carcinogenic toxins from the colon, fennel bulb may also be useful in preventing colon cancer.

The herb is rich in potassium – an essential mineral that helps decrease the high blood pressure that can cause a heart attack.

Fennel, as an excellent source of vitamin C, alleviates the symptoms of upper respiratory infections.

Fennel’s aromatic taste is unique, strikingly reminiscent of licorice and anise, so much so that fennel is often mistakenly referred to as anise in the marketplace.

Fennel has a similar crunchy texture as compared to celery.

Fennel tea can be used as a carminative [prevents the formation of gas in the gastrointestinal tract or facilitates the expulsion of said gas] with antispasmodic effect against cramps of the digestive tract in combination with flatulence. To make the tea put a teaspoon of the seeds in a teapot, pour on boiling water, and leave to ’steep’ for five minutes.

Fennel can also be used for bad breath, constipation, colds, flu, and as a diuretic.

Constipation: Fennel seeds, particularly in powdered form, act as a laxative. The roughage helps clearance of bowels, whereas the stimulating effect helps maintain the proper peristaltic motion of the intestines, thereby helping proper excretion.


How to Select and Store

Good quality fennel will have bulbs that are clean, firm, and solid, without signs of splitting, bruising, or spotting. The bulbs should be whitish or pale green. The stalks should be relatively straight and closely superimposed around the bulb and should not splay out to the sides too much.

There shouldn’t be any sign of flowering buds, as this indicates that the vegetable is past maturity. Fresh fennel should have a fragrant aroma, smelling subtly of licorice or anise. Fennel is usually available from autumn through early spring.

Store fresh fennel in the refrigerator crisper, where it should keep fresh for about four days. Yet, it is best to consume fennel soon after purchase since, as it ages, it tends to lose its flavor gradually.

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



