Strawberry Julius (raw, dairy-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/strawberry-julius-raw-dairy-free-nut-free/



	Strawberry Julius

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free, nut-free ~

This homemade Strawberry Julius is full of fresh fruit flavor and goes down with such a velvety smoothness. It’s what those other cloying artificial drinks wanna’  be, and fall so short of…  Creamy, thick, pale pink, and bursting with nutritional yumminess.

Gastronomic Secret

I do have one gastronomic secret here… and it has to do with the “milk” base, which is made from…. wait for it….. tiger nuts!  They are gluten-free, organic, NUT & SEED FREE, allergen-free, dairy-free, high in fiber, low in calories & fats, non-GMO, all making it Paleo Perfect and Raw!

You don’t have to use tiger nut milk, but if you struggle with any allergens, this might be a wonderful alternative for you.  Outside of tiger nut milk, I recommend either almond or cashew milk.

You want to use a milk base that is neutral in flavor with a slight sweetness to it.  Oh good golly, I almost failed to share with you that Tiger nuts are tubers, actually a vegetable!  So drink your veggie milk and grow up big and strong. :)

If you’re not able to find fresh organic strawberries, check out the freezer aisle in the grocery store.  More and more I am finding great deals on organic frozen fruit.  In fact, if you use frozen it will add a nice frostiness to the drink.  I chose to use raw honey as the sweetener but if you are vegan, go ahead and use any other sweetener that is neutral in taste.

Ingredients:

Yields 4 cups


1 cup (288 g) fresh young Thai coconut meat/flesh

2 cup (273 g) organic fresh strawberries

1 3/4 – 2 cups raw tiger nut or raw almond milk

3 Tbsp raw honey

1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice


Preparation:


In the blender, combine the coconut meat, strawberries, milk, honey, and lemon juice.  Blend until ultra-creamy.

Pour the luscious creamy liquid into chilled glasses and garnish with strawberries.




 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



