Tiger Nut Milk ( raw, nut & seed free)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/tiger-nut-milk-raw-nut-seed-free/



	Tiger Nut Milk

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Are you looking for an alternative to dairy milk, nut milk, seed milk, oat milk, rice milk, hemp milk, or coconut milk? Today I am going to introduce you to a creamy vegetable milk. Yep, you heard me right! Tiger Nuts are a small vegetable tuber that grows in the ground, just like carrots or potatoes.

But what does Tiger Nut milk taste like?  When I close my eyes and slowly chew a tiger nut, I get a sense of a slight hint of sweetness, much like a roasted chestnut.  It is best served chilled, with ice, sweeten to taste (if desired), and a pinch cinnamon.

The nuts themselves have the texture of hazelnuts but way chewier. Once blended with water, it creates naturally sweet milk, with an almost vanilla flavor that doesn’t need anything added to create a delicious and delicate taste.  But nothing is stopping you from adding in other beautiful flavors to enhance its greatness.

I’m going to let the tiger out of the bag…

I must share this again… Tiger Nuts are – NOT NUTS, they are Tubers!  They are one of the top sources of resistant starch, a prebiotic fiber that resists digestion and becomes fuel for our probiotic bacteria.   They are remarkably nutrient-dense as well. They provide as much iron as red meat, as much potassium as coconut water, and are high in magnesium, zinc, phosphorus (phosphorus is the second most plentiful mineral in your body, calcium being first. Your body needs phosphorus for many tasks, such as filtering waste and repairing your tissues and cells.)  For more clinical research, click (here).

They are also 100% Gluten-Free, 100% Organic, 100% NUT FREE, 100% Allergen Free, 100% Dairy Free, High in Fiber, Low in Calories & Fats, High in Nutrition, Non-GMO, Paleo Perfect and Raw!  They are also suitable for low carb diets since the tubers are one of the top sources of resistant starch, a prebiotic fiber that resists digestion and becomes fuel for our probiotic bacteria.  ALL this is truly something to get excited about.

So far, I have tested two versions of the Tiger Nuts, the Premium Organic Tiger Nuts and Supreme Peeled Tiger Nuts.  The difference nutritionally is fiber.  The Premium Organic has 33% fiber, and the Supreme Peeled has 23% fiber. Otherwise, they have the same nutritional values.  Visually their coloring differs; the Premium Organic is a darker brown and has a thin skin (not shell) on them.  They are still edible with the skin on. The Supreme Peeled is a pale blonde color since the skin has been removed.

Harvesting Geek-Out Moment

If you are anything like me and LOVE to learn how our food is grown and harvested, click (here) to see a quick video that shows you just that. Click on the center video.  I found it fascinating and would love to visit such a place one day.  I think it is time to release you to the kitchen.  I would like to hear your thoughts about “The Amazing Tiger Nuts” once you give them a try! P.S.  I have made milk using both the Supreme and Premium (have the brown membrane on them), and I didn’t detect a difference.

Ingredients:

Yields 3 cups of milk

Basic milk:


1 cup raw Tiger Nut Supreme (peeled) or Tiger Nut Premium (have thin membrane on them)

3 cups water


Optional:


1/2 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 Tbsp preferred sweetener

Pinch Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:

Soaking the Tiger Nuts


First thing first, the tiger nuts must be soaked for 36 hours.

Place the tiger nuts and water into a bowl, cover with a cloth, and put them in the fridge to soak for 36 hours.  Change the water every so often. The tiger nuts will soften a little (not much), they go more from chewy to crunchy.  But they are easier to digest.  I got this information straight from the company.

After they are done soaking, drain the soak water and rinse.




Place the water and tiger nuts in the blender, blending for 2-3 minutes.

A high-powered blender will accomplish the job much easier.

If you don’t own one such as a Vitamix or Blendtec, you might have to blend for 2-4 minutes.

Do not sweeten or add flavorings until you have strained the milk from the pulp.  That way, you can use the pulp in either sweet or savory recipes.





Straining the milk:


Turn the nut bag inside out and keep seams on the outside for easier straining, cleaning, and faster drying.

Place the nut milk bag in the center of a large bowl.

Instead of a nut bag, you can drape cheesecloth over the edges of the bowl and pour the milk through it.  I find this process messier, and it doesn’t seem to filter it as well.

Desperate?  Don’t have a nut bag or cheesecloth while you are vacationing in France?  Take off one of those silky-French knee-high nylons, wash it, and pour the milk through it.  I am here, always thinking for you. :)




With one hand holding the nut bag, pour the liquid into the bag.  Lift the bag, and the milk will start to flow through the mesh holes in the bag.  The finer the mesh, the more filtered the liquid will be.

Gather the nut bag (or cheesecloth) around the almond meal and twist close.

Squeeze the nut pulp with your hand to extract as much milk as possible.  Make sure that you don’t have any snags in your nails or have sharp rings on.  These could puncture the nut bag and render it useless.

Do not toss the nut pulp.  Freeze and dehydrate it, which can be used in other recipes such as smoothies, crusts, cookies, crackers, cakes, or raw loaves of bread.  The pulp will taste a bit bland and dry since much of the flavor has been squeezed out of it. But it’s still a rich source of resistant starch.





Flavoring:


I recommend flavoring your milk after the pulp has been removed.  That way, the pulp remains neutral in flavor for other recipes.

Liquid sweeteners: you can sweeten the milk with the sweetener of your choice.  Start with 1 tsp and build up.  For a sugar-free option, use NuNaturals liquid stevia.

Dried fruit:  Medjool dates add a wonderful caramel-like flavor to nut milk.  You might want to run it back through to the nut bag to filter any small bits out.  You can use all sorts of fresh or dried fruits for this.

Spices: To liven things us, add cinnamon, cloves, cardamom, pumpkin spice… you name it.

Extracts:  vanilla or any other flavoring.

Raw cacao powder


Thickeners and Emulsifiers:


Lecithin – thickener and emulsifier

Add up to 1 Tbsp per every 2-3 cups of water used.

I highly recommend sunflower or soy lecithin.




Coconut butter/manna

Add up to 1 Tbsp per every 2-3 cups of water used.

Do not use coconut oil.  It hardens when chilled and may create small gritty pieces in the milk




Nut butter:

Add up to 1 Tbsp per every 2-3 cups of water used

If using store-bought, watch for added ingredients such as salt.





 Storing and expiration:


Store the milk in an airtight glass container such as a mason jar.

Always label the contents along with the date that it was made.

If, for some reason, separation still does occur, shake the jar before serving, and the milk will come back together.




Fridge – The milk can last anywhere from 3-5 days in the refrigerator.

If the nut milk prematurely sours, it may be from an unclean blender, nut milk bag, or poor quality nuts.




Freezer – There are several ways to store nut milk in the freezer.  Freeze for up to 3 months.

Pour the milk into ice cubes trays and freeze.  The cube sizes are perfect for plopping into smoothies.

Freeze in 1 1/2 pint freezer-safe jars.

It is essential that you only freeze glass jars that are made for freezing.  I have tested this, and sure enough, I have had jars crack on me, resulting in throwing everything in the trash — sad day.

You can use smaller jars for better portion control if you don’t plan on using a full 1 1/2 pints worth.

Pay attention to the “maximum freeze line” indicated on the jar.  If you don’t see that, then it’s another indicator that the jar isn’t safe to place in the freezer.





Nut bag maintenance:


It is vital to keep the nut milk bag clean!

Wash with organic, scent-free soap, such as Dr. Bronners.  Do not use laundry soap. (always refer to the manufactures cleaning method as well)

Rinse well air dry. Ideally, in the direct sun to receive free sterilizing from the warm rays.  Nylon nut milk bags should not be placed in the sun as the ultraviolet rays can damage the nylon.

Do not hang the bags outside on the clothesline to dry.  We don’t want an air-raid of bird poop coming down on it.

Proper bag storage –

I like to roll mine up and store in a glass jar to help keep it clean, protect it from dust, and accidental hole damage. A holy bag has no purpose when it comes to nut milk making.

Also, if you use nut bags for multiple reasons, it would be a good idea to store them in separate jars, labeling them for their purpose, such as; nut milk, juicing, sprouting.





 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



