Drinkable Greek Nogurt (raw, vegan, gluten-free, cultured)
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/drinkable-greek-nogurt/



	Drinkable Greek Nogurt

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, cultured ~

Now you can have your Nogurt and drink it too!  I have a feeling that this could become one of my favorite drinks.  Talk about an easy, tasty, and healthy snack to have on hand.

You can double the recipe and make up a few glass containers of this drink and keep them stored in the fridge for “quick-pick-me-ups” throughout the day.  I recommend glass mason jars; you pick the shape and size but using the smaller ones, you can create single-serving drinks.

A little separation may take place while it is hanging out in the fridge, chilling… but just give it a shake (with the lid on) and enjoy!

Be creative with the fruits that you use.  In this batch, I used some organic cherries that I found rolling around in the freezer.   You can also omit using any sweeteners if you prefer.  As long as your fruit is nice and ripe, you may not need the extra boost.  While making your Nogurt, take a taste test before adding a sweetener and see if it is required.

To spruce up the drink, I placed a dollop of coconut whip cream on top and shredded a little chocolate for pure indulgence. Enjoy.

Ingredients:

Yields 2 1/2 cups




1 1/2 cup cashew yogurt

1/4 cup almond milk

1/2 cup fruit, fresh or frozen

1 Tbsp raw agave nectar or Markus Sweet


Preparation:


In the blender, combine the yogurt, almond milk, fruit, and agave.  Blend until creamy.

I used frozen, thawed bing cherries, which made it the deep red color.

Use Markus Sweet if you feel a sweet is needed but don’t want any more sugars.




Serve chilled with a happy heart!


Tips on cashews:


Cashews are highly perishable and can turn rancid quickly due to their high oil content. Choose glass jars over plastic packaging.

Store cashews in a cool, dry place in an airtight container to avoid absorption of other food odors.

At room temperature, they will not last long, but if you refrigerate them, they can last up to 6 months.

Cashews may also be frozen up to 1 year.


 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



