Rethink Your Greens Smoothie - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/rethink-your-greens-smoothie/



	Rethink Your Greens Smoothie

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Today’s smoothie is all about rethinking your greens, and I am not referring to the different hues that the color green comes in.  This morning I woke thinking about what my morning smoothie was going to be like.

I am trying more and more to really listen to my body to see if I can recognize what it is asking for.  Use to be a day when rice crispy bars had a huge calling within me, but my body has shifted.  It literally craves greens, veggies of all sorts, and fruits.

As I was rummaging through my cabinets, I stumbled upon a container of Innate Women’s +40 Greens powder that I was taking last spring.  I sort of forgot I still had some left.  I had gotten out of the habit of taking it when we were traveling.  I decided to add it to today’s smoothie.

I put some product info on it down below. It’s pretty darn amazing.  So this morning, here I sat chewing my smoothie and thinking about all the green power that was in it and asked myself why.

Why do I love all this green stuff, why do I love all these amazing powerhouse foods that I am adding to my smoothies and the short answer is….it is what my body wants, and when you supply your body what it is craving it is all that much more pleasurable!  It satisfies the taste buds, the ritual, the tummy, the mind, and the soul.  It’s just downright nourishing to my body on all levels.  So use these recipes as simple guidelines.  Put ingredients into your smoothies that you are drawn to that very moment and enjoy it!


Smoothie Tips



Blending fruits and vegetables together breaks down the cells of plants and improves digestibility. BUT even with that, be sure to chew your smoothies.  The chewing process starts the release of the saliva in your mouth.  The mixture of saliva and your food is where digestion begins.  This is a very healthy habit to get into.  It may feel strange at first, but soon it will become an automatic response.

Ingredients:


2 cups water

5 cups spinach

1 medium frozen ripe banana

7.7 oz mango (1 medium, seed and skin removed)

1 Tbsp Ceylon cinnamon

1 scoop Women’s +40 Renewal (see below), optional

3 Tbsp Vanilla Protein Powder

2 Tbsp lemon juice

1 tsp NuNatural liquid stevia

Pinch Himalayan pink salt



Preparation:



In the blender combine the water and spinach.  Blend until the spinach is broke down.

The first thing to add to your blender is the liquid.  This will the greens move more freely when blending.

Blending in stages prevents chunks.




Add the frozen banana, mango, cinnamon, Women’s +, protein powder, lemon juice, sweetener, and salt.  Blend until smooth.

I always recommend frozen bananas over fresh.  Make a habit out of storing overripe, peeled bananas in the freezer for future smoothies.

A dash of a high-quality salt will increase the minerals and improve the taste of your smoothie.

A good green smoothie should be perfectly smooth.




 Learn how to design your own smoothies by reading through my, Template for Designing Smoothie Recipes.


Innate Women’s +40 Greens

GREAT TASTING RENEWAL METACORE- A low glycemic, certified organic, clinical strength multi-care green food. Renewal MetaCore features the nutrition of 27 organic fruits, vegetables and botanicals, cold-milled raw hemp protein providing omega oils, soluble and insoluble fiber, utilization-enhancing CereCalase enzymes, a blend of 3 billion probiotics, and a complete whole food multi-vitamin. Easy to mix, easily digested Women+40 Renewal MetaCore provides rejuvenative endocrine and cardiovascular support from a synergistically formulated adaptogenic botanical blend.


OPTIMAL PROTEIN- Raw hemp protein provides fiber, omega oils and has a complete amino acid profile.

DETOXIFYING WEIGHT MANAGEMENT- Low glycemic and formulated with balanced sources of soluble and insoluble fiber, as well as a complete detoxifying combination of certified organic greens rich in chlorophyll, organic milk thistle, and organic dandelion.

CARDIOVASCULAR CHOLESTEROL SUPPORT- Helps maintain cholesterol levels already within a normal range by providing 4 grams of fiber per serving. Additional cardio-protective support provided from omega oils in raw hemp protein.

LOW GLYCEMIC BLOOD SUGAR SUPPORT- Provides soluble and insoluble fiber, as well as key nutrients such as GTF (Glucose Tolerance Factor) chromium to slow the digestion of consumed carbohydrates and help maintain normal blood sugar levels. Balancing thyroid support provided from endocrine adaptogenic botanicals.

ANTI-AGING BLEND OF ORGANIC FRUITS, VEGETABLES GREENS- PhytoDynamic Anti-Age blend delivers the ultimate physical and mental anti-aging support that high ORAC supplements cannot provide.

COMPLETE IMMUNITY BLEND- 3 billion multi-strain viable probiotics crafted to effectively repopulate in the digestive tract. Also includes soluble and insoluble fiber, organic shiitake, organic astragalus and organic schizandra.

RESTORATIVE REVITALIZING WOMEN+40 ADAPTOGENIC BOTANICALS- Crafted with the understanding that when whole foods are artfully combined with botanicals, the synergy of nutritive and active constituents created can have a profound effect on the body. Select botanicals known to support women’s health are included to help rejuvenate the health of the endocrine system and restore detoxification processes. The Women+40 blend also provides cardiovascular support from red clover, ginkgo, and hawthorne.


SUGGESTED USAGE:

Blend or stir one level scoop (12 g scoop included) into 8 fl oz of water, fruit juice, milk or milk substitute.

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



