Iced Coconut Vanilla Latte
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/iced-coconut-vanilla-latte/



	Iced Coconut Vanilla Latte

													    
    


				– vegan, raw, gluten-free, nut-free –

Not too long ago I published a post on cold-pressed coffee, and it has pretty much become a staple in my house.  It has really opened the doors to my desires to play around and create new drinks.  I will admit that if I allowed myself to… I could become highly addicted to those fancy dancy coffee drinks.



I have had a few in the past years and boy, is it a slippery slope!  It’s something that I have always wanted to avoid.  I try to use organic and fair-trade coffee.  Drinking cold-pressed coffee, for me, is a treat that I will allow myself and it has up to 75% less acid, which makes me feel even better about my choice in having it.

Now comes the fun part though!  Watch out over-priced Starbucks coffee shops; there is a new up and coming barista in town!  I may not be able to make pretty pictures in my mugs just yet, but give me time, allow me some room to experiment and I just might be able to create some latte art yet.  Never to old to learn new tricks.

It doesn’t take fancy art to make it taste good, so that’s a relief.  Today’s drink was a last-minute creation as Mom and I were heading out the door.   The poor woman, every time she comes to visit I get so excited to catch her up on all the new treats that I am creating. I hope you enjoy this special treat. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:


1/4 cup cold-pressed coffee

1/4 cup coconut milk

1 tsp vanilla extract

1 squirt of stevia (or your desired sweetener)

water and ice


Preparation:


Combine all of the ingredients, including the ice, place the lid on tightly and give it a good shake.  Ta-da!  That’s it.  Not complicated at all.

You can always double the measurements for a full glass… regardless of what you do, be prepared to ooh and aaaah over the cool swirls that the coconut milk creates as you pour it in.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



