Sun Warrior Banana Smoothie - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/smoothies-juices-nut-milks/sun-warrior-banana-smoothie/



	Sun Warrior Banana Smoothie

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Yesterday I got some sample packages of Sun Warrior Protein (Raw Vegan) Powder. I have been wanting to try this for a while now but I couldn’t bring myself to buying a huge package of it not knowing if I can even handle the taste.

So many times in the past I have bought protein powders, spending a chunk of money on them, only to bring them home to find out that I can’t handle the taste.  I dislike wasting money like that.

So, I sent an email to Sun Warrior asking them if they had some sample packages of their protein powders that they could send me.  Two days later they arrived in my mailbox, now that is customer service.

So today, I added some of the vanilla flavored protein powder to my smoothie and to be honest I like it.  I have a sample package of chocolate and a natural flavor, so I will wait and see which one I like the best before I buy it.  But so far I am impressed.  Below, I shared some information from their site regarding the protein powder. It’s worth reading over.


Smoothie Tips



Blending fruits and vegetables together breaks down the cells of plants and improves digestibility. BUT even with that, be sure to chew your smoothies.  The chewing process starts the release of the saliva in your mouth.  The mixture of saliva and your food is where digestion begins.  This is a very healthy habit to get into.  It may feel strange at first but soon it will become an automatic response.

Ingredients:


2 Tbsp chia seeds

1-2 cups water

6 cups spinach

4 oz frozen banana, (1 ripe medium)

1 Tbsp psyllium husk

1 tsp bee pollen, optional

1 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

3 Tbsp Vanilla Protein Powder

1 tsp NuNatural liquid stevia

Pinch Himalayan pink salt



Preparation:



Soak the chia seeds in 1 cup of water for about 15 minutes in the blender carafe.  Enough for them to swell up.

The first thing to add to your blender is the liquid.  This will the greens move more freely when blending.

Start with 1 cup.  After everything is added, feel free to add more if desired.

The more liquid you add the more watery or runnier the smoothie will be.




Add the spinach and blend until it is broken down.

Blending in stages prevents chunks.




Add the frozen banana, psyllium, bee pollen, cinnamon, protein powder, sweetener, and salt.  Blend until smooth.

I always recommend frozen bananas over fresh.  Make a habit out of storing overripe, peeled bananas in the freezer for future smoothies.

A dash of a high-quality salt will increase the minerals and improve the taste of your smoothie.

When adding psyllium, be sure to really get it blended in.  Click (here) if you want to read more about this ingredient.

A good green smoothie should be perfectly smooth.




Optional – Add ice

Always add the ice last, otherwise, you may over blend the ice, and it will make your smoothie watery rather than frosty.

I usually only add ice if my fruit wasn’t frozen.




 Learn how to design your own smoothies by reading through my, Template for Designing Smoothie Recipes.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



