Creamy Caramelized French Onion Soup
https://nouveauraw.com/soup/creamy-caramelized-french-onion-soup/



	Creamy Caramelized French Onion Soup

													    
    


				 



~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Well lick my lips and pat my belly… this was mmm mmm good!  I was quite pleased with myself after my husband polished off the last bowl for his dinner.  He had it two days in a row.  This soup is a little on the sweet side with the use of miso and using the Balsamic Caramelized Onions.  And this soup is best served warmed.

You can do this three ways; the first way (and the way I did it)… I poured the soup into a 9×13 glass baking dish and slide it into the dehydrator.  I set the temp at 145 degrees and set the timer for 1 hour.
The reason I poured it into such a large baking dish, was to have more of the surface exposed, which meant it would warm up quickly and evenly.
The second way is to do this on the stovetop.  If you want to keep the soup raw, I recommend using a thermometer with this method.  Temperatures can get out of control quickly.  Warm to 115 degrees.

The third way is to place the soup in an airtight cooking pan and place it on the engine of your car and drive around the block a few times. Lol Ok, ok, I don’t recommend this really, but my dad and I use to do this technique of cooking when I would go trucking on the road with him. We would make up meat and cheese sandwiches, wrap them in foil and snug them down around the engine.  By the time we hit our next stop our sandwiches would be all nice and warm. haha

I also noticed that this soup seemed to thicken a bit as it chilled out in the fridge overnight.  It made it nice and creamy, which was delightful. If you want to make this soup nice and hardy, you can later add some cooked or sprouted quinoa or even some cooked brown rice.

Ingredients:

Yields 5 cups



3 3/4 cups almond milk

2 Tbsp lemon juice (half lemon)

1 Tbsp chickpea miso

¼ cup coconut aminos

1/2 tsp dried thyme

1/2 tsp fresh cracked black pepper

2 cups Balsamic Caramelized Onions (divided; 1 cup chopped, 1 cup whole)

2 Tbsp olive oil





Preparation:



In a blender combine the milk, lemon juice, miso, coconut aminos, thyme, cracked black pepper, and 1 cup of caramelized onions.  Blend for about 30 seconds on high.

Turn the speed down and drizzle in the olive oil while it is running.

Add 1 cup of chopped caramelized onions and pulse about 3-4 times.

Pour into a serving bowl. Serve and enjoy!


Warming Suggestions:


Allow the soup to warm to room temperature and enjoy.

Place the serving bowl in hot water, allowing it to heat up before adding the soup.  This will help take a little extra chill off of the soup and make it cozy warm to hold in your hands.

Pour a serving size of soup in a mason jar, place lid on top, and tighten… immerse the jar in hot water till it warms the soup to your liking.

Pour into a small saucepan and heat on the stove.  Use your fingertip as the temperature gauge; it shouldn’t get too hot for your finger.  You can also use a thermometer gauge if this concerns you.

Dehydrator – if you have a “box” shaped dehydrator such as the Excalibur, pour the soup into a wide mouth baking dish and turn the heat to 145  (F) degrees.  Warm for 30-60 minutes.  You can also place the temperature at 115 degrees and heat for 3-4 hours.  You will need to gauge this.   The more soup that exposed to the air, the quicker it will warm.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



