Energy Soup (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/soup/energy-soup/



	Energy Soup

													    
    


				~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I am slowly coming to raw soups.  Not because they are raw, I think mainly because I am not a large soup eater overall.  But they are starting to appeal to me more and more.

When it comes to soup, I am looking for substance, creaminess, mouthfeel, and one that brings a mouth full of bud-popping flavors.  For this, I needed some inspiration, and that is when I stumbled upon www.gracegrove.com.

I think it was the only recipe on their site, but it was interesting enough to get my wheels turning.  So I took the recipe and made several modifications to fit my tastes.  If you try it, I would love to hear your results!

There are so many nutrient ingredients in this recipe that I am not sure which one to point out. For on-the-go lifestyles, store the soup in a few jars and take one with you to the office, traveling or running errands.  If it has been refrigerated, it is advisable to allow a couple of hours to adjust to room temperature before consuming.

I updated the photo 9/17/17. I made the soup without the tomatoes this time around because they seem to be aggravating my digestion at the moment.  The bread in the photo is not raw. It is a special gluten-free bread that I make for my husband. I hope you enjoy this green soup. It’s fresh and full of vibrant energy. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients: 

Yields: 5 cups


1/2 cup lemon juice

1 cup  water

1/2 – 1 Tbsp dulse flakes

1 raw untoasted nori sheet torn into smaller pieces

1 cup cherry tomatoes

2 1/2 cups fresh raw spinach leaves

2 stalks celery, rough chopped

1 medium peeled zucchini

1 1/4 cups packed, fresh basil

1/2 cup raw hemp seeds

cayenne powder to taste

1/2 medium avocado (3 1/8 oz)


Preparation:


Put all of the ingredients in a high-speed blender EXCEPT for the avocado, blend until nice and incorporated.

The dulse and nori are optional. They not only add a saltiness to the soup, but they add lots of nutrients. If you omit them, add salt to your taste after blending.




Now add in the avocado.  It is possible to over process avocados in recipes, and it will change the consistency. So blend gently.

Enjoy right away.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



