Classic Cream of Mushroom Soup (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/soup/classic-cream-of-mushroom-soup/



	Classic Cream of Mushroom Soup

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

This soup is so cozy, so comforting and just so creamy… There are days when it feels like I am wrapped in a wet blanket. Despite the three blankets that I have wrapped myself in, the hand knitted stocking hat with pompoms on top… I just can’t shake the chills. Those are the days when soup sounds really good.

It’s been years since I’ve had a classic mushroom soup. Growing up I couldn’t even look at a mushroom without a lip curling in disgust. But in my thirties, a few of my taste buds shifted. Now the only curling my lips do when it comes to mushrooms is when they curl around a spoonful of them.

This soup is very creamy and very thick, but you are welcome to thin it out by adding a bit more almond milk or water. And if you have the time, I highly recommend “Sautéing” the mushrooms first. This will add incredible depth to the soup. You can learn how to do this (here).

For those chilly days when you just need a little warmth to find its way to your belly… you can warm the soup up. In order to keep it raw, I will provide several options on how to do this.

First, soak a bowl in very hot water for about 15 minutes. This will heat the bowl up. Add the soup, then place the bowl in the dehydrator for about one hour at 145 degrees (F). Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

Secondly, you can heat the soup on the stove-top but be careful that you don’t get it too hot. You should be able to poke your finger in the soup and hold it there. But please be careful, so you don’t burn yourself.  One last way to warm the soup is in a high-powered blender such as the Vitamix. Keep your hand wrapped around the base of the carafe to sense how warm it is getting. So, there you go. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 2 cups


1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2+ hours

1/4 cup water or almond milk

2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice

1 tsp raw agave nectar

1 Tbsp gluten-free Tamari

1 tsp onion powder

1 tsp garlic powder

1 tsp dried thyme

1/2 tsp black pepper

1/4 tsp celery salt

8 oz (2 cups)  diced, raw mushrooms


Preparation:


After soaking the cashews, drain and discard the soak water.

In the blender, combine the cashews, water, lemon juice, sweetener, Tamari, onion powder, garlic powder, thyme, black pepper, and celery salt. Blend until smooth and creamy.

Add the mushroom and either blend till creamy or leave small bits for texture.

Enjoy right away. This soup does darken the longer it sits.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



