Cream of Broccoli Soup (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/soup/cream-of-broccoli-soup/



	Cream of Broccoli Soup

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I can always tell when Fall is approaching and not just for the obvious reasons of the rainbow of Autumn colors that blanket the land but because soup starts to sound really good.

There are a lot of ways of dressing up this soup if you wish, but, it is very soothing and gentle just as it is.  I chose hemp seeds for my milk base because more and more people seem to be having nut allergies.  If you are not one of them,  cashews would be wonderful to use instead of hemp.

When I made this soup, I did steam the broccoli.   My digestive system struggles with raw broccoli these days so rather than fight it, I have to meet it where it is.  So keep in mind that you don’t have to steam the broccoli if you don’t want to.

My husband enjoyed this soup served cold; I liked it warmed up a bit… so to each his own.  If you do wish to warm it and yet have it remain raw,  place the bowl in the dehydrator and set the temp at 145 degrees and warm for 1 hour or until desired warmth is achieved.

I have to admit; it took me two attempts to make this soup.  The first time around I only added 1 1/2 cups of water and the garlic clove I used…oooooh baby, it was far too much, and hours later my poor little mouth is still suffering.  My dentist would be proud as to how many times I have brushed my teeth today.  Haha,  I love garlic, but right now I fear going outside because my breath just might kill the vegetation.  Oy-vey!  Thank goodness Bob had a bowl because now we can sit in the same room together.  Bob, however, loved the first version as it was.  It was more like a dip, and he asked for chips with it.  So, I guess if you are so inspired,  make this recipe, cut the water in 1/2, add some chunky salsa to it and you will have an excellent dip for veggies, crackers or chips!

Ingredients:

yields 6 cups

Hemp milk ingredients:


3 cups water

1 cup hemp seeds

1 tsp raw agave nectar


Remaining soup ingredients:


4 cup broccoli florets  (steamed)

1 1/2 Tbsp sliced green onion

1 small-medium garlic clove

2 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1/2 tsp lemon juice

1/2 tsp Herbamare Seasoning

1/4 tsp ground black pepper

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/2 – 1 avocado (depending on size) 5 oz


Preparation:


In the blender combine; hemp seeds, water, and agave.  This will create hemp milk which is the base for the soup.

Add; broccoli, onion, garlic, nutritional yeast, lemon juice, and spice.   Blend until creamy.

Add the avocado and blend once more until smooth.

Serve or store in an airtight container in the fridge.

When serving top the soup with diced avocado and a sprinkle of hemp seeds.


Warming Suggestions:


Allow the soup to warm to room temperature and enjoy.

Place the serving bowl in hot water, allowing it to heat up before adding the soup.  This will help take a little extra chill off of the soup and make it cozy warm to hold in your hands.

Pour a serving size of soup in a mason jar, place lid on top, and tighten… immerse the jar in hot water till it warms the soup to your liking.

Pour into a small saucepan and heat on the stove.  Use your fingertip as the temperature gauge; it shouldn’t get too hot for your finger.  You can also use a thermometer gauge if this concerns you.

Dehydrator – if you have a “box” shaped dehydrator such as the Excalibur, pour the soup into a wide mouth baking dish and turn the heat to 145  (F) degrees.  Warm for 30-60 minutes.  You can also place the temperature at 115 degrees and heat for 3-4 hours.  You will need to gauge this.   The more soup that exposed to the air, the quicker it will warm.


 



© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



