Allspice Blend
https://nouveauraw.com/spice-blends/allspice-blend/



	Allspice Blend

													    
    


				
Three fairly potent spices in one bottle. Surely there is a  party going on in there, and every time I pop the lid, I think I am invited.

Allspice is a simple spice blend, but it’s packed with not only a powerful aroma but also powerful health benefits. Did you know that each one of the spices used significantly decreases blood glucose levels?

Granted we can’t go around and just eat spoonfuls of Allspice to cure diabetes, but when we are trying to heal and maintain our health, every bite, every ingredient used should be guiding us towards optimal health. That’s my story, and I am sticking to it!

Today, I want to shine the light on nutmeg because I find it downright fascinating and I hope that you do as well.

This spice has a distinctive pungent fragrance and a warm slightly sweet taste. The best way to use nutmeg is to freshly grind it as needed.

The whole nutmeg keeps almost indefinitely stored in airtight containers, but ground nutmeg loses its flavor very quickly. I realize that grinding it isn’t always feasible, so use what you can. Do keep in mind that when you make this spice blend, use it sooner rather than later. That goes for most spices… the fresher, the better.

Back in the day when I was petrified of spices, I had a spice drawer with bottles of spices that were YEARS old,  they had no aroma, and were almost solidified. No wonder I couldn’t get a grasp on spices back then. They couldn’t have been any less inspiring. Haha, Thank goodness that life doesn’t give up us and continues to present ways to educate and inspire us. So let’s chat a little bit about the spice, Nutmeg.

The Journey of Nutmeg…

A nutmeg tree is a large evergreen plant that thrives well in tropical climates. A fully-grown tree reaches about fifty to sixty feet tall and is the source of nutmeg and mace, two valuable spices. I had no idea that the spice mace, came from the nutmeg tree!

The nutmeg fruit, in fact, is a drupe, about the size of an apricot. The nutmeg tree yields up to three times in a season. Once ripened, it splits up to reveal single centrally situated oval shaped hard kernel known as “nutmeg spice.”

The seed is closely enveloped by crimson-red colored lacy or thread like tendrils known as “mace.”  The mace is gently peeled off from the kernel surface, flattened into strips, dried, and sold either as whole or finely ground. The nutmeg kernels are then dried under the sun for several days to weeks.

 Ingredients:



1 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 Tbsp ground cloves

1 Tbsp ground nutmeg




Preparation:


Place in a small mason jar, tighten the lid and shake.

Store in an airtight container for up to 3-6 months.

Be sure to keep the spices in a cool space,  away from any heat source.

Never shake spices out of the container over food that is being heated. Moisture from the food can contaminate the spice.

When you open the jar, the aroma should waft up to greet your nasal passages. If you have to stick your nose in the container to smell the spice, it is past its prime.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



