Herbes de Provence Spice Mix
https://nouveauraw.com/spice-blends/herbes-de-provence-spice-mix/



	Herbes de Provence Spice Mix

													    
    


				

In my opinion, spices are the key to a successful kitchen; this wasn’t always the case. By now I am sure you have read about my past knee-wobbling-fear of spices. Thankfully, those days are long gone. That doesn’t mean that I know everything about spices, but at least I don’t buckle at the knees when I open the spice drawer.

With a healthy array of spices and spice mixes, you have the foundation for nearly any dish that you want to make; the culinary world is your oyster.

Whether you are a beginner or a “well seasoned” chef… there is something empowering about mixing your own spice blends. You know that proud feeling you have when making a recipe from scratch, and your audience goes wild over it (pat yourself on back)… you get that same feeling when blending your own spices.

Not only do you save money but you get to take control over what goes into our food. Most store-bought spice mixes that have fillers such as MSG, gluten, modified food starches, partially hydrogenated oils, silicon dioxide, and natural flavorings. Are these things really necessary?

Silicon Dioxide serves as an anticaking agent which absorbs excess moisture and prevents ingredients from sticking together. Studies show that it may be harmful to us even in small amounts.

You can get away without needing such additives. Make sure to store the spices away from any heat source and never shake your spices over food that is being heated. The moisture from the heat causes clumping.  If you still get any clumps, double check that the container is sealed tightly, scan once again to see if there are any heat sources nearby, and lastly, just give the bottle a shake before using to break it up.

So, turn up the radio, measure the following herbs into a mason jar, tighten the lid, and shake your booty (bottle) to the rhythm of the music.  Be silly, have fun, and enjoy your time in the kitchen. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1/4 cup


1 Tbsp dried rosemary

1 tsp dried basil

1 tsp dried marjoram

1 tsp dried oregano

1 tsp dried thyme


Preparation:


Place in a small mason jar, tighten the lid and shake.

Feel free to place the herbs in a spice grinder if you want a fine-textured mixture.




Store in an airtight container for up to 3-6 months.

Be sure to keep the spices in a cool space,  away from any heat source.

Never shake spices out of the container over food that is being heated.

When you open the jar, the aroma should waft up to greet your nasal passages. If you have to stick your nose in the container to smell the spice, it is past its prime.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



