Olive & Sun-Dried Tomato Tapenade Cashew Cheese
https://nouveauraw.com/spreads-cheeses/olive-sun-dried-tomato-tapenade-cashew-cheese/



	Olive & Sun-Dried Tomato Tapenade Cashew Cheese

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

Dive into the flavors of the salty and rich olives, the sweet, chewy sun-dried tomatoes, the fresh parsley, the pungent garlic, all nestled together in a creamy nut-based cheese.  It’s an Italian party in your mouth experience. hehe

You might have landed on this recipe because you have chosen, for one reason or another, to eliminate dairy from your diet. Whether you eat dairy or not, whether you are vegan or not… this is great to have in your recipe back pocket.

Dairy-Free

Nut-based “dairy” replacements are excellent because they don’t leave us feeling deprived. They allow us to focus on all the amazing foods that we can have, rather than what we can’t have.

This started from my basic Cashew Cream Cheese recipe.  Having such wonderful base ingredients makes for a great springboard when creating new and exciting flavors.

The Key to Success

One of the main keys to maintaining a healthy diet is to have staples in the fridge or pantry. Not only does it make life easier, but it also keeps you from eating junk food. But, here’s the trick, learning how to tweak these staples every time you pull them off the shelf can add some real pizzazz to your daily menu.

If you’re not familiar with tapenade, I think you are in for a treat. Pack your bags and great ready for a trip… because nothing captures the flavor of the Mediterranean like a good ole’ tapenade.  I do enjoy it, but often find t a bit too powerful in flavor for my pallet.  So the beauty of combining it with the cashew cream cheese is that it mellows the flavor and makes for a delicious treat.  Serve as a dip with fresh veggies, spread on raw crackers, or even your favorite raw bread.  Enjoy and be blessed, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 1/2 cups


1 cup  Cashew Cream Cheese

1/2 cup  Sun-Dried Tomato & Olive Tapenade


Preparation:


This is sort of embarrassing; I feel like I should write more here…  I could tell you about the time I was in the 3rd grade and… Nah… just go ahead and mix the two together and enjoy!

Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-5 days.

Spread on crackers, raw breads, dip celery sticks in it or try coating zucchini noodles with it. Yum!


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



