Strawberry Date Jam (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/spreads/strawberry-date-jam/



	Strawberry Date Jam

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Making your own raw jam is easy peasy!  This recipe is wonderful to spread on; raw crackers, breads, spread in between cake layers or on brownies.

This would also be fantastic spread on the banana crepes!  I can’t express enough to make sure that you purchase only organic strawberries.  They are one of the top-rated fruits on the “Dirty Dozen” list, meaning that they are high in pesticides when you don’t purchase organic.

When you blend these simple ingredients together… you can create a very creamy, smooth jam texture or just pulse the ingredients together to create a rustic look.  That is what I did in the photo.

Selecting Strawberries

When preparing raw food, it is so important to use the best quality when it comes to ingredients.  Select strawberries that are firm, plump, free of mold, and which have a shiny, deep red color and attached green caps.

Since strawberries, once picked, do not ripen further, avoid those that are dull in color or have green or yellow patches since they are likely to be sour and of inferior quality. Medium-sized strawberries are often more flavorful than those that are excessively large.

After making this jam, I spread it on my Raw Raisin Bread, which was wonderful!  I hope you enjoy this simple recipe and find many creative ways to use it.

Ingredients:


2 cups Medjool dates, pitted and soaked

2 cups strawberries, organic with greens removed


Preparation:


In a food processor, fitted with the “S” blade, combine the dates and strawberries.  Blend until nice and creamy.  Or you can stop it sooner if you want a more chunky style.

I added some fresh mint which was just delicious.

If the dates are really dry and hard, I recommend re-hydrating them by placing them in the bowl and add enough water to cover them.  After 15 minutes, drain the soak water and hand-squeeze the excess water from them.




Store in glass containers in the fridge for about 7 days.




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



