Touchdown Spicy Cheese Dip (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/spreads-cheeses/touchdown-spicy-cheese-dip/



	Touchdown Spicy Cheese Dip | Oil-Free

													    
    


				

It’s perfectly possible to make a smooth, creamy cheese sauce with natural ingredients and without dairy. A strong statement, I know… but I speak the truth.

In addition to veggies, it’s also great to stir into zucchini noodle pasta, sprouted quinoa, rice, or even pour directly over crunchy tortilla chips for a little homemade nacho action!

What makes it cheesy?

The nutritional yeast is the key ingredient here to give it that cheesy flavor.  So my recommendation is to get a really good quality nutritional yeast.

I prefer Red Star brand and trust me, I have tried several other brands, and the flavor just doesn’t measure up.  Nutritional yeast is rich in vitamins, especially the B-complex vitamins.

I made this “cheese” sauce today, and my husband was moaning with each bite. (happy moans, I should clarify hehe).  He stood at the counter and scooped up the cheese dip with some Chili Corn Crackers that I had just pulled out of the dehydrator. Perfect combo.

If you don’t care for heat in your foods, you can easily omit the crushed dried pepper, and it will still taste amazing. I have made this recipe countless times, and one thing I noticed was that you could alter the color of the sauce depending on what color of bell pepper you use. In the photo posted here, I used an orange bell pepper because that was all I had but to a more orange color, you will need to use a red bell pepper. The color really doesn’t alter the flavor.

I call this Touchdown Spicy Cheese Dip because it reminds me of the perfect cheese dip to serve during the Superbowl and the other 364 days in between. I do hope you give this simple recipe a try and please comment below if you do. Have a blessed day, amie sue.



Ingredients:


1/4 cup lemon juice

1/4 cup water

1 large red bell pepper, deseeded and rough chopped

1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hrs

1/2 cup nutritional yeast

1 tsp crushed red pepper or 1/4 tsp cayenne

1 Tbsp onion powder

2 cloves fresh garlic

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Soak the cashew nuts for at least 2 hours; this will help to soften the nuts to make a smooth, creamy sauce.  Drain and rinse when ready to use.

In a high-powered blender combine; lemon juice, water, and red bell pepper.  Blend till the pepper is well liquefied.

Add the cashews, nutritional yeast, pepper, onion, garlic, and salt.  Blend until creamy, and no grit is detected.

Store in the fridge in an airtight sealed container for up to 4-5 days.





© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



