Coconut Date Butter (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/spreads/coconut-date-butter/



	Coconut Date Butter

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

After pulling my beautiful loaf of Raw Banana Walnut Bread out of the dehydrator, I wanted a neutral-flavored “butter” to slather on top of a slice of warm bread.   The neat thing about this “butter”  is that once it is chilled, it firms up.  So you can place the soft batter in a mold and then serve it in a butter dish as shown in the photo here.

Coconut butter and oil solidifies at a temperature of 76 degrees (F) and cooler, so chances are that when left on the counter it will remain firm unless you live in a very warm climate or have your house temperature up above 76 degrees.  My husband did a “test” (wink, wink) and left it out on the counter all night long.  The results of his “test”  were that the butter held up perfectly.

Soft enough to spread on some Banana Walnut Bread for breakfast, yet held its form beautifully.    If you don’t have any raw bread on hand, I encourage you to make some. But don’t feel bad if you just eat this butter by the spoonful.  No one will judge or make fun of you, just as long as you share.

Did you know that there is a difference between coconut butter (AKA coconut manna) and coconut oil?  Coconut oil is JUST the oil that is extracted from the meat.  Coconut butter is the whole meat of the coconut pureed into a creamy butter.  Coconut meat (by nature) is approximately 65% oil.  You can read more about it here.

This recipe is quick to pull together. Nothing like a little instant gratification. I hope you enjoy this recipe. Be sure to leave a comment below. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 1 cup


1/2 cup raw coconut butter (softened)

1/2 cup date paste

1 Tbsp cold-pressed coconut oil, melted

1 pinch Himalayan pink salt


Preparation:


Soften the coconut butter by placing the jar in a hot water bath or by warming it up in a dehydrator.  This process can take anywhere from 10-30 minutes.

In a blender combine; coconut butter, date paste, coconut oil, and salt.  Blend until smooth

Store in an airtight container for approximately 7 days.  It will firm up when it is chilled.  To soften, leave it out at room temperature.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



