Onion, Dill & Horseradish Cheese (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/spreads-cheeses/onion-dill-horseradish-cheese/



	Onion Dill & Horseradish Cheese

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I am speechless as to what to say about this “cheese”! I learned about it when Sunny Raw blog sent out her posting featuring a woman who made this cheese from  The Ultimate Uncheese Cookbook by Jo Stepaniak.  I have to laugh…” from a friend of a friend who is friends with another friend of her friend, read this book!”  Well, you see what I’m getting at.


Anyway, after seeing the video in the making of this type of cheese, I knew I had to give it a try.  I am always on the lookout for recipes and ways that I can cut down the consumption of nuts in my diet.

I love nuts, and they are very good for you but I do try to limit them in my diet.  I will admit that Agar sort of made me nervous, not because of what it is, I guess just because it was so unknown to me.

So this being my first time playing with it since raw culinary school, I was elated with the results.  No more fears to hold me back.  Agar is not considered raw but it is a seaweed and it is still good for you.  I can’t get over the consistency of this cheese.  Already, my mind is going wild with all sorts of ideas.  The texture reminds me a bit of “squeaky cheese”.

You can use just about any container to mold the cheese in. I had to laugh when I tilted the container over and the cheese popped right out.  Every indention on the container embossed itself right onto the cheese.  This brought a huge smile to my lips and a giggle to me.  The container I used was a Glad Tupperware container.  You can’t see it in the picture but right there on top the word Glad is embossed right on the cheese.  Not to mention the recycle symbol!  I couldn’t be more Glad to be eating this amazing cheese and you better believe that it will be recycled.  Now there is a knee slapper. (old photo replaced, but still wanted to share the story)
Ingredients:

yields 2 cups

Cheese base:


3/4 cup water

1/2 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hours

1/4 cup nutritional yeast

3 Tbsp lemon juice

2 Tbsp tahini

2 Tbsp white horseradish powder

2 tsp Dijon mustard

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 tsp onion powder

1/4 tsp garlic powder

1/4 tsp dried onion flakes

2 tsp dried dill weed


Agar slurry:


3/4 cup water

5 Tbsp agar flakes or 1 1/2 Tbsp agar powder


Preparation:

Cheese base:




Soak the cashews in 1 cup of water to soften them.  Once done soaking, drain and discard the soak water.

Set aside a 2 cup container. You can use just about anything to mold the cheese in.  Be creative. I find that I don’t need to grease or line the mold, the cheese just pops out.

In a blender add the water, cashews, nutritional yeast, lemon juice, tahini, horseradish powder, salt, mustard, onion powder, garlic powder, onion flakes, dill, and blend until smooth.  Check for grit, if you feel any, keep blending.  A food processor won’t work for this cheese.





 

Agar slurry:




Place 3/4 cup of water and agar in a small saucepan.  Whisk together until the slurry just starts to get a small boil.  Reduce the heat and simmer, whisking often, for 5 to 10 minutes, or until completely dissolved.

Once the slurry is ready, start the blender and get a vortex going.  Quickly but carefully pour the agar slurry into the blender, add the dried minced onion and dill.  Blend for about 10 seconds.  As the agar slurry starts to cool it starts to thicken, so don’t dilly-dally here.

Pour into container(s) and cool uncovered in the refrigerator.

When completely cool, cover and chill several hours.  To serve, turn out of the container and slice.

Store covered in the refrigerator.  Will keep 5 to 7 days.





Tip:  I couldn’t find white horseradish powder today at the 2 grocery stores we went to so I used some wasabi powder that I had in the drawer.  The ingredients in this particular brand of wasabi are; horseradish, spirulina, and turmeric.  I ended up with more bang for my buck when it came to added nutrients.

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



