Maple and Walnut Peach Pie Slices (raw, vegan, gluten-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/sweet-treats/maple-and-walnut-peach-pie-slices/



	Maple and Walnut Peach Pie Slices

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I am not sure how these little peach pie slices will stack up against other peach pies, but I can tell you that these are a one-bite-wonder!   Simplicity is the name of the game here but don’t let that fool you into thinking they lack a bit of flavor.  It is like having a holiday in your mouth!

I sort of stumbled my way into creating these the other day. After stripping our peach trees clean, I found myself with oodles and oodles of fresh, RIPE peaches on my hands. Apparently, I am not the only one who adores plump peaches… so do fruit flies!   Let the battle begin!

First of all, I set up my fruit-fly-zapping-serum.  This is my go-to recipe that combats fruit flies.  After arming myself for combat, I decided to make some Peach Chips. If you are new to dehydrating peaches, please read this post… I did my best to share what lessons I have learned in my peach/fruit drying years.

So, these little gems were made from sliced peaches that were not as ripe and juicy as others.  I could have just dehydrated them as is, but they weren’t as sweet.  So, I thought I would help them along and this my friends is how I came up with this simple recipe.

I chose maple syrup as my sweetener because it is more alkaline for the body, but you could use raw coconut nectar if you want.  I don’t recommend honey because it remains very sticky even after dehydrating. Then I asked myself, “What is maple syrup without a dash of cinnamon, and what are peaches, maple syrup, and cinnamon without walnuts?!  :)”  You can always go nut less if needed but goodness, the whole package here tasted just like a piece of peach pie.

The measurements for this recipe are really up to you.  The more peaches you have, the more of the other ingredients you will need.   The fewer peaches you have… well you know the drill.  Enjoy!

Ingredients:


Peach slices

1/4 cup maple syrup

1/2 tsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1/3 cup crushed walnuts


Preparation:


Wash and dry the peaches.

In a small bowl, whisk together the maple syrup and cinnamon.  Set aside.

With a mandolin, make 3 mm thick slices on two sides of the peach all the way down to the pit.

Dredge each peach slice in the maple and cinnamon syrup.

Tap off the excess and place it on the teflex sheet that comes with the dehydrator.

Do not use the mesh screen because the syrup will drip through and create a sticky goo in which you will be cursing me for later. :)




Sprinkle crushed walnuts on top.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 8-10 hours or until dry.  They won’t be crispy and might even remain a little sticky on the bottom.

If you have any leftovers, store them in an airtight container for 5 – 7 days.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



