Marinated Rhubarb and Strawberry (raw, vegan)
https://nouveauraw.com/sweet-treats/marinated-rhubarb-and-strawberry-raw-vegan/



	Marinated Rhubarb and Strawberries

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

To get the most out of this recipe, we need to start by selecting and using the best rhubarb and strawberries. With that being said, look for rhubarb with moderately thin, crisp, dark pink to red stalks, which will yield a sweeter and richer taste.

Thicker stalks can be stringier, coarser, and sourer. Rhubarb’s thick, celery-like stalks can grow up to two feet long.  They’re the only edible part of the plant—the leaves contain oxalic acid and can be toxic.

Smaller strawberries tend to have more flavor than larger ones. Look for brightly colored, plump berries, preferably with the green caps still attached.  The first thing to do with strawberries after getting them home is to take them out of the storage container and place them in a single layer in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Don’t rinse strawberries or remove their caps until just before serving.

I first created this recipe for a cheesecake that I was making but this recipe would taste great served with raw coconut yogurt, raw ice cream and even mashing it and using it a spread over bread!  Placing a few spoonfuls in a bowl and ladling some cashew cream (half & half consistency) over it would be divine.  I am definitely making myself hungry here.

Be creative, have fun and keep me posted if you give this recipe a try. I always enjoy hearing from you. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 4 cups


2 cups chopped rhubarb (choose slender stalks)

3 1/2 cups organic strawberries

1/2 cup balsamic vinegar

3 Tbsp maple syrup


Preparation:


Wash and peel the rhubarb stalks.  If the stalks are thick, slice them down the center, lengthwise, then dice into 1/2” pieces.  Place in a large ziplock bag.

Wash and remove the stems from the strawberries.  Cut into small cubes and add to the ziplock bag.

Add the vinegar and sweetener.

Close the bag and gently massage it, making sure everything gets well coated.  Place in the fridge overnight to marinate. You could also place the bag in the dehydrator and warm at 115 degrees (F) for 6+ hours to break it down even further.

The amount of time it takes to soften the rhubarb will differ between batches. It will depend on the ripeness of the rhubarb used.

I prefer to always do the marinating in the dehydrator, but I realize that not everyone has one.




Store leftovers in the fridge for 3-5 days.


© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



