Chocolate Covered Banana "Biscotti" (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/sweet-treats/chocolate-covered-banana-biscotti/



	Chocolate Covered Banana “Biscotti”

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

Ok, this recipe is a far stretch from really being a biscotti but try to work with me here.  The word biscotti originates from the medieval Latin word biscoctus, meaning “twice cooked/baked.” It defines oven baked goods that were baked twice, so they were very dry and could be stored for long periods of time.

My recipe doesn’t include any of the ingredients that a true biscotti contains.  My recipe is not baked…. not once, not twice.  Lol   BUT these are about the same size, that has to count for something?  They are dehydrated… a form of “baking.”  True biscotti have almonds in them; I have it on them.  Biscotti tastes great with milk or coffee… so does my recipe.  See…. “just” like it.  haha

Shew, that was a tough sell, but with that ironed out, let’s move on to just how scrumptious they are.  The crunch of the almonds, the soft bed of chocolate, welcomes you, inviting you… then the chewy bite of banana, well shoot, the melding of flavors and textures is an incredible explosion in your mouth.

These came into creation because I had a bunch of bananas that were about to go south on me.  But, I didn’t want to just make the typical banana chips.  I wanted, needed something new.  So  I decided to make long banana strips.  As wonderful as they are on their own, I wanted to take them up a notch or two.

These are wonderful to makeup ahead of time and serve to your guests during the holidays or any way.  Do we really need a special occasion?!   These would also make amazing gifts for your loved ones.  You can get very creative with the topping and personalize them for others.  I can imagine that kids would really enjoy helping out with these too.

Ingredients:




10 banana strips,  dehydrated

Chocolate ~ Hardening Chocolate recipe or 1 1/2 cups Vegan Organic Chocolate Chips (melted)

Toppings: chopped nuts, dried cranberries, coconut


Preparation:



Make sure the bananas are very ripe but not mushy.

Slice the bananas lengthwise rather than in discs.  I cut mine about 1/4″ thick.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees for about 16 hrs or until dry.

Have all of the toppings ready before you start the chocolate.

Set up your workstation. Be prepared. :)

Chocolate is messy and gets thick quickly.




Prepare the chocolate.  Either make a raw hardening chocolate or if desired, melt Vegan Organic Chocolate Chips.

Dip the banana strips into the chocolate, tap off the excess.

Lay them on wax paper or the teflex sheets that come with the dehydrator.




Sprinkle the toppings on top and repeat the process till you run out of bananas or chocolate.

Store in an airtight container.





		
		
			
				
			
				
				Create thick, long cuts of banana and dehydrate them.
				
			
				
			
				
				Prepare all of your ingredients.
				

			
				
			
				
				Coated the banana strips and place on parchment paper to dry.
				
			
				
			
				
				Once firm, enjoy!!
				

		


 

 

 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



