S'More Snacks - Nouveau Raw
https://nouveauraw.com/sweet-treats/smore-snacks/



	S’More Snacks

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free ~

I love graham crackers but to be honest, I haven’t had any for years!  So making this raw version was a real huge treat!  So far this creation is the closest I have come to recreating the cooked version of S’Mores.

Sometimes we have to let go of “tradition” which only means there is now room to create your OWN traditions!  So send your sweetheart out to start a small pit fire, gather up your crackers, frosting’s, a few lap blankets, a couple of tall glasses of almond nut milk, and make your way outside to create new memories!

I hereby give you permission to put too much frosting on your crackers…allow it to drip into the palm of your hand and when everyone IS looking, lick it off with a huge grin on your face!

Ingredients:

Cracker:




5 cups cashew flour

2 1/2 cups oat flour

2 Tbsp ground Ceylon cinnamon

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

3/4 cup water

1 3/4 cups maple syrup

2 Tbsp vanilla extract


Vanilla Bean Filling:


1 cup raw cashews, soaked 2 hours

1 cup almond milk

1/4 cup + 2 Tbsp maple syrup

3/4 cup coconut oil

4 tsp vanilla extract

1/4 cup lucuma powder 

2 Tbsp powder sunflower lecithin


Chocolate Ganache:


3/4 cup maple syrup

3/4 cup cocoa powder or raw cacao powder

1/3 cup virgin coconut oil, melted

1/8 tsp plus a pinch salt


Preparation:

Cracker:


In a medium-sized bowl, combine the cashew flour, oat flour, cinnamon, and salt.

Add the water, maple syrup, and vanilla.  Mix well.

If the batter is too thick, dive in with your hands to mix the batter.




Spread flat on dehydrator screens, about 1/8″ thick.

Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees for 4 hours.

Make an incision with the back of a knife for six rectangles.




Dehydrate for another 6 hours and separate the pieces.

Keep well sealed, at room temperature until ready to serve.

Recipe for crackers by Matthew Kenney


Vanilla Bean Filling:


Drain and rinse the cashews before adding them to the blender.

Soaking the cashews will help them to blend nice and creamy and reduce the phytic acid.  You will be much happier in the end.  Nobody likes grainy frosting!




In a high-speed blender, combine the cashews, almond milk, sweetener, and vanilla until smooth.

Add the remaining ingredients and blend again until completely creamy.

Lucuma Powder has a delicious full-bodied maple-like flavor and is an excellent source of carbohydrates, fiber, vitamins, and minerals—including remarkable concentrations of beta-carotene, niacin, and iron.




Transfer to an airtight container and chill in the fridge until firm enough to spread.


Chocolate Ganache:


Place all of the ingredients in a blender and process until smooth.

Stop occasionally to scrape down the sides of the blender jar with a rubber spatula.

Any extra frosting can be kept in the fridge for about a week.


Assembly:


Make sure your crackers are completely cooled down from being in the dehydrator.

Make your frosting’s and then put them in the fridge to firm up.

Spread the chocolate frosting on one cracker.  Spread the vanilla frosting on the other and press the crackers together, frosting sides together. :)

Go ahead and eat as is or place in the fridge to firm things back up…personally part of eating S’Mores is all about the oooey-goooey mess!

You will have leftover frosting, but that is a plus!!  Keep it in a sealed glass container for up to two weeks….gosh maybe longer if you don’t eat it all up by then!  I don’t recommend freezing the leftover frosting though; it will change the consistency.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




To learn more about maple syrup by clicking (here).

What is raw cacao powder?

Why do I specify Ceylon cinnamon?  Click (here) to learn why.

What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Is coconut butter the same as coconut oil?  Click (here) to find out.

Are oats gluten-free?  Yes, read more about that (here).

Are oats raw?  Yes, they can be found.  Click (here) to learn more.

Do I need to soak and dehydrate oats?  Not required but recommended.  Click (here) to see why.

Why I use lecithin… click (here) to read about it.



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



