Strawberry Nut Jammin’ Taffy (raw, vegan, gluten-free nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/sweet-treats/strawberry-nut-jammin-taffy/



	Strawberry Nut Jammin’ Taffy

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free nut-free ~

Seriously, these treats are just about as easy as it gets when it comes to making homemade candy. The only thing that would any easier is to just pass a bowl of Medjool dates around the room.  They are Mother Natures’ candy for sure.

It almost (almost) feels silly sharing this but sometimes we all just need a little inspiration that will fill the need for a quick, healthy snack… and this my friends is it.

For the filling, you can use any combination of nut butters and jams. I used peanut butter and strawberry jam this time around, but there are so many wonderful variations.

I refer to them as a taffy-like candy because the texture reminds me of taffy, but not as tooth-filling-yanking-chewy… if you know what I mean.

These candies can handle being out all day on the counter, but due to the jam, I would refrigerate or freeze them to extend their shelf-life, if needed.  Dates do not freeze solid, so they will remain chewy right out of the icebox.

I highly recommend Medjool dates for their size, caramel flavor, and moistness.  If you can’t find them where you live… that’s ok.  You can use other dates too.

After creating a mixture of nut butter and jam, I used approximately 1 teaspoon of filling per date.  This will vary depending on the size of the dates that you use.  With that being said, look for nice, plump, and moist dates when creating taffy.

For packaging ideas… I used clear pillow boxes. Plus, it’s one way to just give others samples of your creations.  I hope you enjoy this simple yet delicious treat. Blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields roughly 20 candies


1:1 ratio of nut butter and jam

20 large Medjool dates, pitted


Preparation:


With a sharp knife, make a slit on one side of the date and remove the pit. Set aside.

In a bowl, combine the nut butter and jam, whipping it together

Scoop the filling into a piping bag fitted with a round piping tip. I used Aceto #804.

Holding a date in your hand, pinch it open slightly.

Place the piping tip inside of the date and gently squeeze.

Be careful that you don’t overfill the date.  You want to be able to close it without the filling seeping out.




Wrap individually in wax paper, twisting the ends closed.

These will keep fresh on the counter throughout the day, but I recommend storing them in the fridge or freezer to extend their shelf life.  They won’t freeze solid which makes them perfect for quick serving.





Pipe….





Wrap…

Twist…

Unwrap…

Take bite…

Hide evidence…

Package….

Share…

Slurp down some cold almond milk…




© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



