Mango Banana Leathers (raw, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/wraps/mango-banana-leathers/



	Mango Banana Leathers

													    
    


				

~ raw, gluten-free, nut-free ~

I love making fruit leathers.  They are so easy and only require very few ingredients.  In this case, I used only two ingredients, mangos and bananas.  BUT the key is to use ripe mangos and bananas.

Not only are they sweeter but it will make it easier on your digestion.  When I made this recipe, I decided to play around and make six smaller circular fruit leathers rather than one big sheet.  Be creative!

Health benefits of fully ripe bananas:

“According to Japanese Scientific Research, fully ripe bananas with dark patches on yellow skin produce a substance called TNF (Tumor Necrosis Factor) which can combat abnormal cells.

The darker patches it has, the higher will be its immunity enhancement quality; Hence, the riper the banana, the better the anti-cancer quality. Yellow skin banana with dark spots on it is 8x more effective in enhancing the property of white blood cells than the green skin version. Eating 1-2 banana/s a day increases immunity.”

Ingredients:

yields 3 1/2 cups of batter


2 mangos, skinned and stone removed

1 large, ripe banana

1 Tbsp raw honey or maple syrup


Preparation:


Select RIPE or slightly overripe bananas and mango that have reached a peak in color, texture, and flavor.

Prepare the mangos by removing the skin and stones.

Puree the fruit and honey, in the blender or food processor until smooth.

Taste and sweeten more if needed.  Keep in mind that flavors will intensify as they dehydrate.

When adding a sweetener do so a little at a time, and reblend, tasting until it is at the desired taste.

It is best to use a liquid type sweetener.  Don’t use granulated sugar because it tends to change the texture.




Spread the puree on teflex sheets that come with your dehydrator.  Spread 1/2 cup of the puree to create a 6″ circle or any size you desire.  If you don’t have teflex sheets for the trays, you can line your trays with plastic wrap or parchment paper.  Do not use wax paper or aluminum foil.

Lightly coat the food dehydrator plastic sheets or wrap with a cooking spray, I use coconut oil that comes in a spray.

When spreading the puree on the liner, allow about an inch of space between the mixture and the outside edge.  The fruit leather mixture will spread out as it dries, so it needs a little room to allow for this expansion.

Be sure to spread the puree evenly on your drying tray.  When spreading the puree mixture, try tilting and shaking the tray to help it distribute more evenly.  Also, it is a good idea to rotate your trays throughout the drying period.  This will help assure that the leathers dry evenly.




Dehydrate the fruit leather at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, reduce temp to 115 degrees (F) and continue drying for about 16 (+/-) hours.  The finished consistency should be pliable and easy to roll.

Check for dark spots on top of the fruit leather.  If dark spots can be seen it is a sign that it is not completely dry.

Press down on the fruit leather with a finger.  If no indentation is visible or if it is no longer tacky to the touch, the fruit leather is dry and can be removed from the dehydrator.

Peel the leather from the dehydrator trays or parchment paper. If it peels away easily and holds its shape after peeling, it is dry. If it is still sticking or loses its shape after peeling, it needs further drying.

Under-dried fruit leather will not keep; it will mold.  Over-dried fruit leather will become hard and crack, although it will still be edible and will keep for a long time




Storage: To store the finished fruit leather…

Allow the leather to cool before wrapping up to avoid moisture from forming, thus giving it a breeding ground for molds.

Roll them up and wrap them tightly with plastic wrap. Click (here) to see photos of how I wrap them.

Place in an air-tight container, and store in a dry, dark place. (Light will cause the fruit leather to discolor.)

The fruit leather will keep at room temperature for one month, or in a freezer for up to one year.





Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.


I forgot to snap a photo of what it looked like when the batter

was wet, but there isn’t much difference other than it is now dried.

The color and shape are pretty much the same.

 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



