Sun-dried Tomato Corn Wraps
https://nouveauraw.com/wraps/sundried-tomato-corn-wraps/



	Sun-dried Tomato Corn Wraps

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

It’s a wrap!  A Sun-dried Tomato Corn Wrap that is!  And might I add a delicious one?!  Wraps can be tricky to make but don’t let that scare you away.

Never be afraid to experiment and play around in the kitchen because who knows what you might create. I mean, someone invented the burritos, right?

The reason I say that wraps can be tricky is that you always need to use an ingredient that helps the wrap be flexible. I have made many wraps, and many of them turned out…. crunchy, which can be a win all by itself after all chips are always great to have on hand. :)  So if you decide to get adventurous and make your own wraps be sure to add either flax meal and or psyllium husk powder.  Both work great to help keep the wrap pliable.

If your wraps get to dry while in the dehydrator, just run them under the water faucet for a second and then dab with a paper towel. This will help soften them so you can roll up your favorite ingredients inside.  You can keep your wraps in a large plastic ziplock bag in the fridge, cause you never know when the urge to wrap might hit.

Ingredients:

8 wraps (1/2 cup batter each)



1/2 cup chopped sun-dried tomatoes, rehydrated

2 1/2 cups water

1 Tbsp apple cider vinegar

1 tsp smoked paprika

1 tsp onion powder

1/2 tsp garlic powder

1/2 tsp dried dill

1 tsp fresh ground black pepper

1 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1/4 tsp cayenne

2 cups organic corn

1/2 cup ground flaxseed

2 Tbsp psyllium powder


Preparation:


In a small bowl cover the sun-dried tomatoes with hot water to rehydrate for about 15 minutes or until soft.   Set aside

In a food processor, fitted with an “S” blade, add the water, apple cider vinegar, paprika, onion powder, garlic powder, dill, black pepper, salt, and cayenne.  Process together.

After soaking the tomatoes, drain the soak water and add to the processor along with the corn.  Process until everything is broken down.

Add ground flax and psyllium and process until the mixture is well combined and you don’t see any chunks.

Line the dehydrator tray with the teflex sheet or parchment paper.  Do not use wax paper; the wraps will stick to it.

Measure 1/2 cup of batter per wrap.  Spread into a 6″ circle with an off-set spatula.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for approximately 4 hours or until they are dry enough to flip over and remove the teflex sheet, leaving the wrap on the mesh sheet.  Continue drying for a few hours.  The wraps might get stiff for wrapping, run under the water faucet real quick and dab the excess water off with a paper towel.

Store in a ziplock bag in the fridge for several weeks.




The Institute of Culinary Ingredients™




What is Himalayan pink salt and does it really matter?  Click (here) to read more about it.

Learn how to grind your own flaxseeds for ultimate freshness and nutrition.  Click (here).

How does psyllium work in a recipe? Learn more (here).



Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.



 
© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



