Sun-Dried Tomato and Sesame Wraps (nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/wraps/sun-dried-tomato-and-sesame-wraps/



	Sun-Dried Tomato and Sesame Wraps

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

These wraps turned out just gorgeous.  They look cooked, don’t they?  Not to worry, they were only dehydrated.  We can thank the sun-dried tomatoes for their color variances and beautiful look.

This recipe can be quite versatile; you can spread the batter out thinly to make wraps, keep it more thick to make bread-like crackers or refrain from spreading it out too much and end up with a real hardy cracker.  Don’t you just love having that control?!  Make one batch of batter,  split it up and make a little of all of them!

Ingredients:

yields 5 cups batter / 18 / 6″ wraps




5 plum tomatoes, chopped

1 cup sun-dried tomatoes, soaked in warm water for 30 minutes

3/4 cup ground flax seeds

1/4 cup raw sunflower seeds, soaked

1/4 cup black sesame seeds

2 Tbsp tamari or nama shoyu

1 tsp dried oregano

2 tsp dried basil

1 clove garlic

1/4 tsp ground black pepper


Preparation:


In the blender puree the 5 tomatoes first.

Combine all of the ingredients except for the sunflower and sesame seeds until it creates a thick sauce.

Now add the seeds and blend till mixture is thick and uniform, don’t puree the seeds (don’t lose all the texture).

To make circular wraps, pour 1/4 cup of the mixture onto a teflex dehydrator sheet and use a spatula to spread it out evenly, in a circular motion.  This should spread out to create a 6″ circle.

Dehydrate at 115 degrees (F) for 2 hours.  Flip the bread onto the mesh screen and peel off the teflex sheet.

If the teflex doesn’t come off to willingly, continue drying for about another hour.  Then try again.

After the wraps are on the mesh sheet, continue drying for about 4 hours.

Check every once in a while, stopping the process once the desired dryness is achieved.




If you are making crackers and the batter is thicker, allow them to dry for about 4-6 hours before you try to flip them onto the mesh sheets, again if the teflex doesn’t peel off easily, dry a bit longer.  Once you can peel off the teflex sheet and they are on the mesh sheet, score them into desired sized cracker shapes and continue drying for 6-10 hours.

Filling ideas:

2 large Romaine lettuce leaves

1 cup alfalfa sprouts (you may substitute clover sprouts if you wish)

1/2 ripe avocado, sliced

6 thin slices of cucumber

1/2 Roma tomato, sliced

6 thin slices of onion

1 tablespoon dressing









Tip:  When spreading the batter to make your circular wrap use a spatula or

off-set spatula, use a light hand and hold it almost flat so you

can spread the batter evenly.  Turn the tray as you create the circle.

If your batter is a tad sticky, it helps to dip your spatula in water.

Again, the key is to use a light hand and be gentle.  Soon you get the hang of it.



 

 

© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



