Red Pepper & Corn Tortilla Wraps (raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free)
https://nouveauraw.com/wraps/red-pepper-corn-tortilla-wraps/



	Red Pepper & Corn Tortilla Wraps

													    
    


				

~ raw, vegan, gluten-free, nut-free ~

If you are looking for a sandwich wrap that can stand up to any ingredients that you throw at it…. a wrap that is flexible and sturdy… a wrap that is full of flavor… then you landed on the right recipe.

The one ingredient that gives this wrap the Olympic gymnastic flexibility is the psyllium powder, so I don’t recommend omitting it.

Raw wraps are wonderful staple foods because you can make a batch up and store them in an airtight container for 1-2 weeks. They are ready and waiting for your hunger pain to strike.

Stuff them full of your favorite ingredients. In this photo, I combined my Seafood Salad Spread, lettuce, tomatoes, onion, and ribboned avocados.  I hope you make this recipe and find many wonderful combinations to load them up with. Please let me know down below in the comment section. Many blessings, amie sue

Ingredients:

yields 8 (3/4 cup) tortillas


4 cups (550 g) chopped yellow or red bell pepper

2 cups (290 g) peeled & chopped zucchini

3 cups (377 g) corn kernels

1 1/2 Tbsp nutritional yeast

1 Tbsp lemon juice

1/2 tsp Himalayan pink salt

1 (160 g) avocado, peeled, seeded, and mashed

3 Tbsp psyllium husks


Preparation:


Place the bell pepper and zucchini in a high-speed blender, and process until smooth.

Add the corn kernels, nutritional yeast, lemon juice, and salt, and process until smooth.

Add the avocado and puree again.

While the blender is still running, add the psyllium and blend well for a few seconds.

Line the dehydrator tray with non-stick sheets.

Using 1/2  to 3/4 cup of the mixture for each tortilla, use a small offset spatula to quickly form flat disks on the dehydrator tray lined with a nonstick sheet.

Each disk should be about 6 inches in diameter, and they should not quite touch each other.

Spread the tortillas into round disks quickly, or the mixture will thicken and become difficult to spread.

Be sure to spread them evenly, so they dry evenly.




Dehydrate at 145 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then reduce to 115 degrees (F) for 4 hours, or until you can easily remove them from the nonstick sheets.

Turn the tortillas over onto mesh dehydrator screens. Place an additional mesh screen on top of each tray. This makes them flatter and easier to store.

Continue dehydrating another 3 to 4 hours, until dry but still flexible.

Store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 2 weeks, or in the freezer for up to 2 months.  Can be moistened with water to soften.


Culinary Explanations:


Why do I start the dehydrator at 145 degrees (F)?  Click (here) to learn the reason behind this.

When working with fresh ingredients, it is important to taste test as you build a recipe.  Learn why (here).

Don’t own a dehydrator? Learn how to use your oven (here). I do however truly believe that it is a worthwhile investment. Click (here) to learn what I use.












© AmieSue.com  	

	
	 




                    
                    Print this Recipe
                    
                

    	
 	

	
	
	


	


	



